I see zero stars in the sky right now. My friend sees three stars. Three is more than zero.
I saw two aardvarks at the zoo. One aardvark was digging in the dirt. The other aardvark was eating ants. Two is more than one.
I have one abacus with ten rows of beads. My friend has two abacuses. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have three abacuses.
A person has one abdomen in the middle of the body. Two arms are above the abdomen and two legs are below it. The arms and legs are more than the abdomen in number.
Two accidents happened on the street today. One accident had a red car and one had a blue car. Two is more than one. In total, there were two accidents.
I see two accordions on the floor. One accordion is red and one accordion is blue. They have the same number of keys. Two is more than one.
We saw two days of acid rain last week. That is fewer than the five sunny days we had. In total, we had seven days of weather.
I have three action figures. My friend has two action figures. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five action figures.
There are six actors on the big stage. Four actors wear red hats and two actors wear blue hats. Four is more than two. In total, six actors bow at the end.
I saw two adders in the grass. One adder was long and brown. The other adder was short and black. Two is more than one.
I have two rolls of adhesive tape. One roll is clear and one roll is white. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
There are three adults in the park. Two adults are sitting on a bench. One adult is pushing a swing. Two is more than one. In total, there are three adults.
I see two aerosol cans on the shelf. One can is red and one can is blue. Two is more than one. They spray paint for art.
I saw five African buffalo at the zoo. Two buffalo were eating grass. Three buffalo were resting in the shade. Three is more than two. In total, five buffalo were in the big field.
I have two agave plants in my garden. One agave is big and one agave is small. The big one has more leaves than the small one. Altogether, I have two agave plants.
We have two air conditioners in our house. One is in the living room and one is in the bedroom. They are the same number. Two is more than one.
I see three aircraft in the sky. Two aircraft are big and one is small. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three aircraft flying high.
There are two aircraft carriers in the big ocean. One carrier has many planes on it. Two is more than one. They are very big ships.
I see six airplanes in the sky. Three airplanes are big and three are small. The big ones are the same number as the small ones. Two airplanes fly very fast.
There are four airports in our state. Two airports are big and two airports are small. The big airports have more planes than the small ones. In total, four airports help people fly.
I saw two airships in the sky. One airship was big and one was small. The big one is more than the small one. Altogether, there are two airships floating.
There are two Aladdin toys in the toy box. One Aladdin has a lamp and one Aladdin has a hat. Two is more than one.
I saw six albatrosses flying over the big blue sea. Three albatrosses have white feathers and three have dark feathers. The two groups have the same number. Six is more than three.
There are two Alberts in my class. One Albert has a red shirt. The other Albert has a blue shirt. Two is more than one.
I have two albums on my shelf. One album has four photos, and the other album has six photos. Six is more than four. Altogether, I have two albums.
I see three alder trees in the park. Two alder trees have small cones. One alder tree has no cones. Two is more than one.
I see three green algae on the rock. Two algae are small and one is big. Two is more than one. They float in the water.
I see two alligators in the pond. One alligator has a big mouth. The other alligator is smaller. Two is more than one. They both have many teeth.
I saw two allosauruses in the book. One allosaurus has sharp teeth. The other allosaurus is bigger. Two is more than one. They both have strong legs.
I have six almonds in my hand. Two almonds are in my left hand and four almonds are in my right hand. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six almonds to eat.
I have three aloe plants on my shelf. Two aloe plants have thick green leaves. One aloe plant is smaller than the other two. Three is more than one.
I saw four alpacas at the farm. Two alpacas had fluffy white fur. Two alpacas had soft brown fur. The number of white and brown alpacas is the same. Four is more than two.
I have three alphabet blocks. Two blocks show the letter A and one block shows the letter B. Two is more than one.
There are six amaranth plants in the garden. Three have red flowers and three have green flowers. The two colors have the same number of plants.
There are five boats on the Amazon River. Two boats are big and three boats are small. Three is more than two. In total, five boats float on the water.
I saw two ambulances on the road today. One ambulance had its lights on. Two is more than one. They drove fast to help people.
There are three American kids in my class. Two kids have brown hair and one kid has red hair. Two is more than one. Altogether, three kids are from America.
I saw four American bison in the field. Two bison were eating grass and two bison were resting. The two groups have the same number. Four is more than two.
We have two american footballs in the yard. One ball is brown and one ball is white. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have two balls to throw.
I see three American robins on the grass. Two robins are looking for worms. One robin is sitting still. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three robins in the yard.
The soldier has ten bullets in his pouch. He uses three bullets for practice. He has fewer than ten bullets left. Seven bullets are still in the pouch.
I saw four amphibians at the pond. Two were frogs and two were salamanders. The frogs and salamanders have the same number. Four is more than two.
I see two amplifiers on the stage. One amplifier is big and black. The other amplifier is small and gray. Two is more than one. They make the music loud.
I visited Amsterdam with my family. We saw three tall windmills and two big canals. Three is more than two. In total, we saw five things in Amsterdam.
There are two girls named Ana in my class. One Ana has a red bow and the other Ana has blue shoes. They have the same number of crayons.
A person has two eyes and one nose. Two is more than one. They help us see and smell.
I see four anchovies in the blue water. Two anchovies swim fast. Two anchovies swim slow. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there are four small fish.
I saw three angels in my dream. Two angels had shiny wings. One angel had a golden ring. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three angels.
I see two angles on the paper. One angle is small and one angle is big. The small one has fewer corners than the big one. Altogether, there are two angles.
I saw two anglerfish in the deep sea. One anglerfish had a big light. The other anglerfish had a small light. Two is more than one.
I see six animals in the barn. Three are cows and three are pigs. The cows and pigs have the same number. Six is more than three.
I see four animals in the yard. Two animals have brown fur and two have white fur. The number of brown animals is the same as the number of white animals. In total, there are four animals playing.
I watched two animations on the tablet. My brother watched three animations. Three is more than two. In total, we watched five animations.
Mom put two anise seeds in the soup. She added three more seeds to the cake. Five seeds in total is more than two.
I have two ankles on my body. One ankle is on the left leg and one ankle is on the right leg. They are the same number.
There are three kids named Ann in my class. Two Anns sit at the front and one Ann sits at the back. Two is more than one. Altogether, three Anns are in our room.
Anna has two dolls and three teddy bears. Three is more than two. In total, Anna has five toys to play with.
I have two apples in my bag. My friend has three apples. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five apples.
I see six ants on the sidewalk. Two ants are carrying a big crumb. Four ants are walking behind them. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six ants.
There are two penguins in Antarctica. One penguin is big and one penguin is small. The big penguin has more feathers than the small penguin. Two penguins stand on the ice together.
I see three antbirds on the tree branch. Two antbirds are eating bugs. One antbird is watching. Two is more than one. In total, three antbirds are in the tree.
I saw three anteaters at the zoo. Two anteaters were eating ants. One anteater was sleeping. Two is more than one. In total, there were three anteaters.
I saw six antelopes in the field. Two antelopes were eating grass. Four antelopes were running fast. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six antelopes.
I see two antennas on the roof. One antenna is tall and one antenna is short. The tall one is more than the short one. They help us watch TV.
The doctor gave me two antibiotics. I took one in the morning and one at night. Two is more than one. Altogether, I took two antibiotics today.
I saw two statues of Anubis at the museum. One statue was tall and one was short. The tall one is more than the short one in height. They both have a jackal head.
I have two toys. My friend has four toys. Four is more than two. Altogether, we have six toys.
I have three toys on my bed. Two are soft bears and one is a red ball. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three toys to play with.
There are six apartments in the small building. Three apartments are on the first floor and three are on the second floor. The two floors have the same number of apartments. Six is more than three.
I saw four apes at the zoo. Two apes were eating bananas. Two apes were sleeping. Two is the same as two. In total, there were four apes.
There are three tall mountains in the Apennine range. Two mountains have snow on top. One mountain has green trees. Two is more than one. In total, three mountains stand together.
I saw six aphids on one leaf. Three aphids are green and three are black. The green ones are the same number as the black ones. Six is more than three.
I have two apps on my tablet. One app is for drawing and one app is for games. Two is more than one.
There are five tall peaks in the Appalachian Mountains. Three peaks are covered in snow. Two peaks have green trees. Three is more than two. In total, five peaks stand together.
The crowd gave three rounds of applause. Two rounds were loud and one round was soft. Two is more than one.
Mom bought ten apples at the store. She gave four apples to me and four apples to my little sister. I have the same number as my sister. Two apples are left for Dad on the table. Ten is more than two.
I have three apricots in my lunch box. My friend has two apricots. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five apricots.
Mom has three aprons in the kitchen. One apron is blue and two aprons are white. Two is more than one. She wears an apron when she bakes cookies.
I saw two aquariums at the pet store. One aquarium has four fish and the other has six fish. Six is more than four. In total, there are ten fish in the two aquariums.
I saw two aqueducts in the park. One aqueduct is tall and one is short. The tall one is more than the short one. They carry water from far away.
I see three Arab people at the park. Two Arab people sit on a bench. One Arab person plays with a ball. Two is more than one. In total, there are three Arab people.
I saw three Arabian horses in the field. Two horses have white legs. One horse is all brown. Two is more than one.
I saw six arachnids in the garden. Four arachnids have eight legs each. Two arachnids have fewer legs than the others. Six is more than four.
I saw three arapaima in the big tank. Two arapaima are long and gray. One arapaima is shorter. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three arapaima.
There is one Arc de Triomphe in Paris. It has four big pillars. One is fewer than four.
I played two arcade games at the fair. My friend played three arcade games. Three is more than two. Altogether, we played five arcade games.
I see two arches in the park. One arch is tall and one arch is short. The tall arch is more than the short arch in height. They are both made of stone.
There are six archaea in the tiny drop of water. Three archaea are round and three are long. The two groups have the same number. Six is more than three.
Two archaeologists dig in the dirt. They find three old bones. Two is fewer than three. Altogether, they have five things.
I saw two archaeopteryx in the museum. One had feathers on its wings. The other had a long tail. Two is more than one.
I see two Archimedes' screws in the sandbox. One screw is long and one screw is short. The long screw is more than the short screw in length. Altogether, they can move water up.
An archipelago has many islands. I see five small islands in the picture. Three islands have trees on them. Two islands have sand only. Three is more than two. In total, there are five islands in the archipelago.
The library has three old archives. Two archives hold books and one archive holds maps. Two is more than one.
I have two toy maps of Argentina. One map shows a big country. The other map is smaller. Two is more than one.
I have two arms. Each arm has one hand. Two arms are more than one hand. Altogether, I have two arms.
I saw three armadillos in the garden. Two armadillos were digging holes. One armadillo was sleeping. Two is more than one. In total, there were three armadillos.
The knight has two pieces of armour. He wears one shiny helmet and one strong chest plate. Two is more than one. Altogether, he has two pieces of armour.
The army has ten soldiers. Five soldiers stand in a row. Five more soldiers stand behind them. The two rows have the same number of soldiers. Ten is more than five.
I see four arrows on the ground. Two arrows are long and two arrows are short. The long arrows are more than the short arrows. In total, there are four arrows.
I made two pieces of art today. My friend made three pieces. Three is more than two. Altogether we made five pieces of art.
Your body has many arteries. Two big arteries go to your legs. Three small arteries go to your arm. Two is fewer than three. They all carry red blood.
I saw six arthropods in the garden. Four were ants and two were beetles. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six small bugs.
Mom bought six artichokes at the store. She cooked three artichokes for dinner. I ate two artichokes. Three is more than two. One artichoke is left for tomorrow.
The soldiers have two big artillery pieces. One is a cannon and one is a howitzer. Two is more than one. They are both ready to fire.
There are four artists in the park. Two artists paint with big brushes. Two artists draw with pencils. Two is the same as two. In total, four artists make art together.
The class has six arts projects on the wall. Two arts are paintings and four arts are drawings. Four is more than two. Altogether, they make a colorful display.
I see three ash trees in the park. Two ash trees have green leaves. One ash tree has fewer leaves than the other two. In total, there are three ash trees.
I have four asparagus plants in my garden. Two plants are tall and two plants are short. The tall ones have more spears than the short ones. In total, I have four asparagus plants.
I saw four asteroids in the sky picture. Two asteroids are big and two are small. The big ones are more than the small ones. In total, there are four asteroids.
There are three asteroid belts in our solar system. One belt has more rocks than the other two. Two belts are smaller than the big one.
I see three astronauts in the big rocket. Two astronauts wave their hands. One astronaut is fewer than two. Altogether, there are three astronauts ready for space.
I see three bright stars in the sky. Two stars are bigger than one star. Three is more than two.
I see three stars in the sky. Two stars are bright and one star is dim. Two is more than one. In total, there are three stars tonight.
There are two statues of Athena in the museum. One statue is tall and one statue is short. They are not the same size. Two is more than one.
There are six athletes on the field. Two athletes run fast. Four athletes jump high. Four is more than two. Altogether, six athletes play hard.
I have two atlases on my shelf. One atlas shows maps of the world. The other atlas has maps of the stars. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two atlases to look at.
An atoll is a ring of land in the ocean. Five atolls have palm trees. Three atolls have white sand. Five is more than three.
An atom is very small. Five atoms can sit on a tiny dot. Two atoms are more than one atom. Altogether, they are very tiny.
Our attic has four big boxes and two small boxes. Six boxes in total are up there. Four is more than two.
I have two aubergines in my basket. My friend has three aubergines. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five aubergines.
The audience has ten people. Six people sit in the front row. Four people sit in the back row. Six is more than four. In total, there are ten people in the audience.
I saw four auks on the rocky shore. Two auks were standing tall. Two auks were sitting down. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four auks by the water.
I have two aunts. One aunt lives in a big city. The other aunt lives near my house. I see one aunt more than the other aunt. In total, I have two aunts.
I saw two aurochs in the field. One aurochs had big horns. The other aurochs had bigger horns. Two is more than one.
We have two australian rules footballs at the park. One ball is big and red. The other ball is the same size. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have two balls to kick.
I see four automobiles in the parking lot. Two automobiles are red and two are blue. The red ones have the same number as the blue ones. In total, there are four automobiles.
I have two avocados on the table. My friend has three avocados. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five avocados.
Dad has two axes in the shed. One axe is big and one axe is small. The big axe is more than the small axe in size. In total, he has two axes.
A bike has two axles. One axle is in the front wheel and one axle is in the back wheel. They are the same number. Two axles help the bike roll.
I saw five baboons at the zoo. Two baboons were eating bananas. Three baboons were playing on the rocks. Three is more than two. In total, there were five baboons.
Mom has two babies at home. One baby is sleeping in a crib. The other baby is playing with a toy. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are two babies in the house.
I have two hands with five fingers on each hand. My back is one big part that helps me sit up. Two hands have more fingers than one back.
I have two backgammon boards. One board has four checkers and the other has six checkers. Six is more than four. Altogether, there are ten checkers.
I have two backpacks at home. One backpack is blue and one is red. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
Our backyard has four big trees and two small bushes. Four is more than two. In total, there are six plants in the backyard.
Mom cooked six strips of bacon for breakfast. I ate two strips and Dad ate four strips. Four is more than two. In total, we ate six strips of bacon.
A drop of water has many bacteria. Three bacteria are round and two bacteria are long. Three is more than two. In total, there are five bacteria in the drop.
I have three badges on my backpack. My friend has two badges. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five badges.
I have two bags for school. One bag is blue and one bag is red. They have the same number of pockets. Two is more than one.
I see two bagpipes on the shelf. One bagpipe has a red ribbon. The other bagpipe has a blue ribbon. Two is more than one.
There are three bakers in the kitchen. Two bakers make bread and one baker makes cakes. Two is more than one. In total, they make yummy food.
I see two bakeries on the street. One bakery has five cakes in the window. The other bakery has three cakes. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight cakes.
I saw two baku at the zoo. One baku was eating leaves. The other baku was sleeping. Two is more than one.
I have six balls in my toy box. Two balls are red and four balls are blue. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six balls to play with.
I have six balloons. Three are red and three are blue. They have the same number. Two red balloons popped. Now I have four balloons in total.
I see six bamboo plants in the garden. Three bamboo plants are tall and three are short. The tall ones have more leaves than the short ones. In total, there are six bamboo plants.
I have three bananas on the table. Two bananas are yellow and one banana is green. Two is more than one. In total, I have three bananas for a snack.
I have two bands on my wrist. My friend has three bands. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five bands.
I have three bandages on my knee. Two bandages are blue and one is red. Two is more than one. In total, I have three bandages.
I heard three loud bangs from the kitchen. Two bangs were soft, but one bang was very loud. Three is more than two.
There are two banks on our street. One bank has a big clock and the other bank has a red door. Two is more than one.
I have two banknotes in my pocket. One banknote is green and one is blue. Two is more than one. They are both for buying snacks.
I see three baobab trees in the field. Two baobab trees are tall and one is short. Two is more than one. They have big trunks.
There are three bars of soap on the shelf. Two bars are white and one bar is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three bars.
There are two barbers in the shop. One barber cuts hair and the other barber trims beards. Two is more than one. Altogether, they help people look nice.
I see two barcodes on the box. One barcode is black and white. The other barcode is the same as the first. Two is more than one.
I see two big barges on the river. One barge has three boxes. The other barge has five boxes. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight boxes on the barges.
I have six barley plants in my garden. Three barley plants are tall and three are short. The tall ones are more than the short ones. Altogether, I have six barley plants.
There are five barns on the big farm. Three barns are red and two barns are white. Three is more than two. In total, five barns hold hay and animals.
I see two barometers on the shelf. One barometer shows the weather. Two is more than one. They help us know if it will rain.
I saw four barracuda in the ocean. Two barracuda swam fast. Two barracuda stayed still. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there were four barracuda.
I have two toy blocks on the floor. My friend has four blocks. Four is more than two. Altogether, we have six blocks to build a tower.
I have two baseballs in my bag. My friend has three baseballs. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five baseballs.
I have three basil plants in my garden. Two basil plants are big and one is small. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three basil plants.
I have two baskets in my room. One basket holds three toys. The other basket holds five toys. Five is more than three. Altogether, I have eight toys in the baskets.
I have two basketballs in my room. My friend has one basketball. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have three basketballs to play with.
I see two bass guitars in the music room. One bass guitar has four strings. The other bass guitar has five strings. Five is more than four. They are big and make a low sound.
I see two bassoons in the music room. One bassoon is big and one is small. They have the same number of keys. Two is more than one.
I saw six bats flying at night. Three bats had big wings and three bats had small wings. The two groups have the same number. Six is more than three.
I have two bath toys in the tub. One is a yellow duck and one is a blue boat. Two toys are more than one toy. They float on the water.
Our bathroom has two sinks and one big tub. Two is more than one. In total, there are three things in the room.
I see two bathtubs in the big room. One bathtub is blue and one bathtub is white. They have the same number of bubbles. Two is more than one.
The soldiers had two battering rams. One ram was big and one ram was small. The big ram is more than the small ram. They used them to break the gate.
I have six batteries in my drawer. Two batteries are new and four batteries are old. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six batteries for my toys.
I see two battle-axes on the wall. One battle-axe is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one in size. They are both sharp.
I have two battleships in my toy box. One battleship is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. Altogether, I have two battleships.
There are three small bays along the sandy shore. Two bays have boats floating on the water. One bay has fewer boats than the other two. In total, the three bays are home to five boats.
There are three boats in the Bay of Biscay. Two boats are big and one boat is small. Two is more than one. Altogether, three boats float on the water.
I see two buckets and three shovels on the beach. Three is more than two. In total, there are five toys on the sand.
I have six beads on my string. Three beads are red and three beads are blue. The two colors have the same number. In total, I have six beads to make a necklace.
A bird has one beak. Two birds have two beaks. That is the same number as two beaks in total.
The old barn has five wooden beams holding up the roof. Three beams are thick and strong. Two beams are thin but still hold well. Three is more than two. In total, five beams keep the barn safe.
I have six beans on my plate. Three beans are green and three beans are yellow. They have the same number. I ate two beans. Now I have four beans left.
There are four bears in the forest. Two bears are brown and two bears are black. The number of brown bears is the same as the number of black bears. In total, there are four bears.
Dad has one beard on his face. My grandpa has two beards? No, that is silly. One beard is fewer than two beards. In total, they have two beards.
There are four Beatles in the band. John and Paul sang many songs. George played guitar. Ringo played drums. Four is more than one.
I saw four beavers by the pond. Two beavers were building a dam with sticks. Two beavers were swimming in the water. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four beavers near the pond.
My room has two beds. One bed is big and one bed is small. The big bed is more than the small bed. In total, there are two beds in my room.
I found three bedbugs on the pillow. Two bedbugs are small and one is bigger. Two is more than one. In total, there are three bedbugs on the bed.
My bedroom has one big bed and one small bed. The big bed is for me and the small bed is for my teddy bear. Two beds are more than one bed. In total, there are two beds in my room.
Mom reads two books at bedtime. I have one teddy bear. Two is more than one. We snuggle together before sleep.
I see six bees on the yellow flower. Two bees fly away. Four bees stay on the flower. Four is more than two. Altogether, six bees were on the flower.
There are six beech trees in the park. Three beech trees have big leaves, and three have small leaves. They have the same number of trees. Six is more than three.
Mom bought two packs of beef at the store. One pack has three pieces and the other has five pieces. Five is more than three. In total, we have eight pieces of beef for dinner.
I heard three beeps from the toy car. Two beeps were loud and one beep was soft. Two is more than one. In total, there were three beeps.
I have three beets on my plate. My friend has two beets. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five beets.
I see six beetles on the big log. Four beetles are black and two beetles are brown. Four is more than two. In total, six beetles crawl in the sun.
I see four bells on the shelf. Two bells are red and two bells are blue. The red bells and blue bells have the same number. In total, there are four bells.
I have one belly. My cat has one belly too. We have the same number of bellies.
I have two belts in my closet. One belt is blue and one belt is black. Two is more than one. In total, I have two belts to wear.
Ben has two toy cars. His friend has three toy cars. Three is more than two. Ben has fewer cars than his friend.
There are three benches in the park. Two benches are under a big tree. One bench is near the flowers. Two is more than one. In total, there are three benches to sit on.
I have six berries in my bowl. Three berries are red and three berries are blue. The red and blue groups have the same number. Six is more than three.
There are two bright stars in the sky. One star is Betelgeuse. The other star is smaller. Betelgeuse is more than the small star.
I have two beverages on the table. One is milk and one is juice. They are the same number.
I have two bibs for eating. One bib is blue with a star. The other bib is red with a truck. Two is more than one.
I have two bibles on my shelf. One bible has a red cover and one bible has a blue cover. Two is more than one.
I see six bicycles in the park. Two bicycles are red and four bicycles are blue. Four is more than two. In total, there are six bicycles.
I see three bikes in the yard. Two bikes are red and one bike is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three bikes.
Dad gave me two dollar bills. I have one bill in my pocket and one bill in my hand. The two bills are the same number. In total, I have two bills to buy a small toy.
There are seven bins in the classroom. Four bins are blue and three bins are red. Four is more than three. In total, they hold all the toys.
We played bingo at school. Five kids had bingo cards. Three kids got bingo first. Three is fewer than five. In total, we played four rounds of bingo.
I have two binoculars in my room. One binocular is red and one is blue. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
We made two small jars of biofuel from plants. Three jars of biofuel are more than two jars. Altogether, we have five jars of biofuel.
I see four birch trees in the park. Two birch trees have white bark and two have brown bark. The two groups have the same number of trees. In total, there are four birch trees.
I see six birds in the tree. Four birds are blue and two birds are red. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six birds singing.
I see two birds of prey in the sky. One bird is big and one bird is small. The big bird is more than the small bird. They fly very high.
I saw two birds-of-paradise in the zoo. They had bright feathers. One bird had a long tail. Two is more than one.
I see two birdhouses in the big tree. One birdhouse is red and one is blue. Two is more than one. They have small round doors for the birds.
I have five biscuits on my plate. I eat two biscuits. Now I have three biscuits left. Three is fewer than five.
I saw six bison in the field. Two bison were eating grass. Four bison were resting. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six bison.
I have two black crayons in my box. My friend has three black crayons. Three is more than two. In total, we have five black crayons.
A black hole is very far away. We cannot see one black hole with our eyes. Scientists have found many black holes in space. Two black holes are more than one black hole.
Mom put two black pepper seeds on the plate. I see three more black pepper seeds next to them. Five black pepper seeds in total is more than two.
I have three blackberries in my bowl. My friend has five blackberries. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight blackberries.
I have six blackcurrants in my bowl. Two blackcurrants are big and round. Four blackcurrants are small and sweet. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six blackcurrants.
A person has one bladder inside their body. The bladder can hold pee until it is full. Two kidneys make pee that goes to the bladder. One bladder is fewer than two kidneys.
I have two blades of grass in my hand. My friend has four blades of grass. Four is more than two. Altogether, we have six blades of grass.
I have two blankets on my bed. One blanket is blue and one blanket is red. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I have six blocks on the floor. Four blocks are red and two blocks are blue. Four is more than two. In total, I have six blocks to stack.
A person has about five liters of blood in their body. One drop of blood has many tiny red blood cells. Three red blood cells look like three tiny round things under a lens. Five is more than three.
The doctor took two blood tests from me. One blood test was for sugar and one was for iron. They are the same number of tests. Two is more than one.
The doctor gave one blood transfusion to a sick child. Two nurses helped with the transfusion. One is fewer than two.
There are four blood types: A, B, AB, and O. Two blood types are more common than two others. In total, four blood types help doctors give safe blood.
I have two blouses in my closet. One blouse is white and one blouse is blue. They are the same number of blouses. Two is more than one.
I saw two blue whales in the ocean. One blue whale is very big. Two blue whales are bigger than one. They swim together in the deep blue water.
I have six blueberries in my bowl. My friend has four blueberries. Six is more than four. Altogether, we have ten blueberries.
I have two boards in my room. One board is for drawing and one board is for writing. They have the same number of uses. Two is more than one.
We have three board games on the shelf. Two board games are for two players. One board game is for four players. Two is more than one. In total, we have three board games to play.
There are two boarding schools in our town. One school has three big buildings and the other has four. Four is more than three. In total, they have seven buildings.
I see four boats in the blue water. Two boats are big and two boats are small. The big boats have the same number as the small boats. Altogether, there are four boats.
A person has one body. Two arms and two legs are part of the body. That is more than one. In total, the body has five main parts: head, arms, legs, chest, and belly.
I know two ways to use body language. One way is a smile and one way is a nod. They are the same number of ways.
I see four bolts on the floor. Two bolts are long and two bolts are short. The long ones are more than the short ones. In total, there are four bolts.
I saw two bombs in the movie. One bomb was big and one bomb was small. The big bomb is more than the small bomb. Altogether, there were two bombs.
There are four bombers in the sky. Two bombers are big and two bombers are small. The big ones have more windows than the small ones. In total, four bombers fly together.
A dog has many bones inside its body. Four bones are in one leg. Two legs have eight bones in total. Four is more than two.
A dog has one bone fracture in its leg. Two bone fractures would be more than one. The vet helps fix the one bone fracture.
I saw two bonobos at the zoo. They sat on a big rock. One bonobo ate a banana. The other bonobo played with a stick. Two is more than one.
I have three books on my bed. My sister has two books on her shelf. Three is more than two. In total, we have five books.
I see two bookcases in the room. One bookcase has four books and the other has six books. Six is more than four. Altogether, they hold ten books.
I have one bookshelf in my room. It holds five books. Two books are big and three books are small. Three is more than two. In total, there are five books on the shelf.
There are three bookstores on our street. One bookstore has two big windows. The other two bookstores have one window each. Two is more than one. In total, there are three bookstores.
I have two boomerangs. One is red and one is blue. I have the same number of boomerangs as my friend. In total, we have four boomerangs.
I have two boots on my feet. My brother has three boots. Three is more than two. In total, we have five boots.
There are three booths at the fair. Two booths sell candy and one booth sells toys. Two is more than one. In total, there are three booths to visit.
There are five bottles of Bordeaux in the cellar. Two bottles are old and three bottles are new. Three is more than two. In total, there are five bottles.
My dad has one boss at work. The boss has two big desks in his office. One is fewer than two.
I saw two botflies on the window. One botfly was big and one was small. The big one is more than the small one. They have six legs each.
I have three bottles on the table. Two bottles are blue and one bottle is red. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three bottles.
I see two bovids in the field. One bovid is brown and one is white. They have the same number of legs. In total, there are two bovids eating grass.
I have two bows in my hair. One bow is red and one bow is blue. They are the same number. Two is more than one.
I have two bows in my toy chest. One bow is red and one bow is blue. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I have two bowls on the table. One bowl is blue and one bowl is red. They have the same number of bowls. In total, there are two bowls.
I have three boxes on my desk. One box is red and two boxes are blue. Two is more than one. In total, I have three boxes.
There are four boys playing in the park. Two boys have red hats and two boys have blue hats. The number of boys with red hats is the same as the number with blue hats. In total, there are four boys running and laughing.
I have three bracelets on my wrist. My friend has five bracelets. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight bracelets.
The Brahmaputra River is very long. I saw two boats on the river. Three birds flew over the water. Two is fewer than three.
I have two braille books on my shelf. One book has three pages of dots. The other book has five pages of dots. Five is more than three. In total, I have two books with braille dots.
A person has one brain inside their head. Two brains are more than one brain. One brain helps us think and learn.
A person has one brain stem inside their head. The brain stem connects the brain to the body. Two brain stems are fewer than one brain stem. One brain stem is more than zero.
The car has four brakes. Two brakes are on the front wheels and two brakes are on the back wheels. The front has the same number as the back. Four brakes help the car stop safely.
I see three branches on the big tree. Two branches have green leaves. One branch has fewer leaves than the other two. In total, there are three branches.
I see three brass instruments in the band room. Two are trumpets and one is a trombone. Two is more than one. In total, there are three brass instruments.
I have two brazil nuts in my hand. My friend has three brazil nuts. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five brazil nuts.
Mom baked three loaves of bread. She gave one loaf to our neighbor. Two loaves are left for us. Two is more than one. In total, we have three loaves of bread.
I have two breadfruits on the table. One breadfruit is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. In total, I have two breadfruits.
I ate two eggs for breakfast. My dad ate three eggs. Three is more than two. Altogether, we ate five eggs.
I have a bowl of breakfast cereal. There are ten little pieces in the bowl. I eat two pieces. Now there are eight pieces left. Eight is more than two.
A baby has two breasts on its chest. One breast is on the left side and one breast is on the right side. They are the same number. Two is more than one.
I have six bricks in my hand. Four bricks are red and two bricks are blue. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six bricks to build a small wall.
I see two bridges over the river. One bridge is for cars and one bridge is for trains. Two is more than one. They help people cross the water.
The British Library has many books. I saw two big books and three small books on the table. Two is fewer than three.
I saw two big doors at the British Museum. Three friends went inside with me. Two is fewer than three. We looked at old things together.
Brittany has four big lighthouses and three small fishing boats. Four is more than three. In total, there are seven things to see by the sea.
There are three broadway theatres on this street. Two theatres have big red doors. One theatre has a gold sign. Two is more than one. In total, three broadway theatres stand tall.
I have three pieces of broccoli on my plate. My friend has two pieces. Three is more than two. In total, we have five pieces of broccoli.
I have two bromeliads in my room. One bromeliad has red leaves. The other bromeliad has green leaves. Two is more than one.
I have two bronze medals on my shelf. My friend has three bronze medals. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five bronze medals.
There are two tall towers on the Brooklyn Bridge. Four big cables hold the bridge up. Two is fewer than four. The bridge has many cars and people.
I have two brooms in the closet. One broom is tall and one broom is short. Two is more than one. They help me clean the floor.
I have two brothers. One brother is tall and the other is short. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two brothers.
I see three brown dogs in the park. Two dogs are big and one dog is small. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three brown dogs.
I see two brown algae in the tank. One is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one.
I see three brown bears by the river. Two bears are eating fish. One bear is sleeping. Two is more than one. In total, there are three brown bears.
I saw three brown dwarfs in the sky picture. Two brown dwarfs are big and one is small. Two is more than one. They are not stars.
I saw four brown rats near the old shed. Two rats were eating seeds and two rats were drinking water. They had the same number of food and drink. Four is more than two.
I have two bruises on my knee. One bruise is big and one bruise is small. The big one is more than the small one. Two bruises hurt a little.
I have two brushes in my art box. One brush is big and one brush is small. The big brush is more than the small brush in size. Altogether, I have two brushes to paint with.
I blew five bubbles in the park. Three bubbles popped fast. Two bubbles floated up high. Two is fewer than three. In total, I had five bubbles.
I have two buckets in the sandbox. One bucket is red and one bucket is blue. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I have two bags of buckwheat. One bag is big and one bag is small. The big bag has more buckwheat than the small bag. In total, I have two bags.
I have two budgerigars at home. One budgerigar is blue and one is green. Two is more than one. They chirp together in their cage.
I see six bugs on the big leaf. Three bugs are red and three bugs are black. The two groups have the same number. Six is more than three.
There are four builders at the park. Two builders carry big tools and two builders carry small tools. The two groups have the same number of builders. Four is more than two.
There are three buildings on the street. Two buildings are tall and one is short. Two is more than one. In total, there are three buildings.
I see three bulbs in the lamp. Two bulbs are bright and one bulb is dim. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three bulbs.
I saw four bulbuls in the garden. Two bulbuls sat on a branch and two bulbuls ate berries. Two is the same as two. In total, four bulbuls were having a snack.
I saw four bullfrogs by the pond. Two bullfrogs are big and two are small. The big ones are more than the small ones. Altogether, there are four bullfrogs.
I see six bumblebees in the garden. Four bumblebees are on yellow flowers. Two bumblebees are flying near the red flowers. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six bumblebees buzzing around.
I have two buns for lunch. One bun has sesame seeds on top. The other bun is plain. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two buns to eat.
I have a bunch of grapes. There are ten grapes in the bunch. I eat four grapes. Now there are six grapes left. Six is more than four.
I see six bunnies in the garden. Three bunnies are white and three bunnies are brown. The white bunnies have the same number as the brown bunnies. Two bunnies hop away. Now there are fewer than before.
Mom made six burgers for dinner. I ate two burgers, and my dad ate three burgers. Two is fewer than three. One burger is left on the plate.
I saw two Burj Khalifa towers in a picture book. One tower is very tall. Two is more than one.
I see two buses on the street. One bus is yellow and one bus is blue. Two is more than one. They both have many wheels.
I see three bushes in the garden. Two bushes are tall and one bush is short. Two is more than one. In total, there are three green bushes.
I saw two bustards in the field. One bustard had a long neck. The other bustard had a short tail. Two is more than one.
I have two pats of butter on my plate. My friend has three pats of butter. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five pats of butter.
I see six butterflies in the garden. Four butterflies are yellow and two are blue. Four is more than two. They fly among the flowers.
I have six buttons on my coat. Three buttons are red and three buttons are blue. The two colors have the same number. Six is more than three.
I heard two buzzes from the bee. Then three more buzzes came. Five buzzes in total is more than two.
A computer has eight bytes in a small memory chip. Four bytes hold one number and four bytes hold another number. They have the same number of bytes. Eight is more than four.
I have three cabbages in my basket. Two cabbages are green and one cabbage is small. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three cabbages.
There are three cabins in the woods. Two cabins are red and one cabin is blue. Two is more than one. In total, there are three cabins.
I have three cacti on my shelf. Two cacti are tall and one is round. Two is more than one. They all sit in small pots.
I saw two caecilians in the dirt. They look like long, pink worms. One caecilian is bigger than the other. Two is more than one.
There are three cages in the pet shop. One cage has two birds inside. Two cages have one bird each. Three is more than two. In total, there are four birds in the cages.
I saw three caimans by the river. Two caimans were big and one was small. Two is more than one. They all had long tails.
I have been to Cairo one time. My friend has been there three times. Three is more than one.
Mom baked a big cake for my birthday. She cut it into eight pieces. I ate two pieces and my dad ate three pieces. Three is more than two. In total, five pieces are gone.
I have two calculators on my desk. One calculator is blue and one calculator is red. Two is more than one. They help me count numbers.
I have two calendars on my wall. One calendar has big numbers and one calendar has small pictures. Two is more than one. They help me know the days.
Jupiter has four big moons. Callisto is one of them. Three other moons are bigger than Callisto. In total, Jupiter has many moons.
I have two toy elephants from Cambodia. My friend has one toy elephant. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have three toy elephants.
I saw six camels at the zoo. Two camels had one hump each. Four camels had two humps each. Four is more than two. In total, there were six camels walking slowly.
I see three camellia flowers on the bush. Two are pink and one is white. Two is more than one. They have soft petals.
I have two cameras. One camera is red and one camera is blue. Two is more than one. In total, I have two cameras to take pictures.
I see two bugs with camouflage on the green leaf. Three bugs are hiding on the brown dirt. Two is fewer than three. In total, five bugs are hard to find.
There are three tents at the camp. Two tents are big and one tent is small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three tents for the campers.
We built one campfire in the woods. Two logs make the fire burn bright. One is fewer than two. The campfire keeps us warm at night.
We went camping with five friends. Three tents were set up near the big tree. Two tents were smaller than the big one. In total, we had five tents for the group.
I see two canals near the park. One canal has three ducks. The other canal has five ducks. Five is more than three. Altogether, there are eight ducks on the canals.
I have six candles on my birthday cake. Three candles are red and three candles are blue. The two colors have the same number. Six is more than three.
I have six candies in my hand. Two candies are red and four candies are blue. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six sweet candies.
The fort has two big cannons. One cannon is black and one cannon is gray. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I see two canoes by the lake. One canoe is red and one canoe is blue. They have the same number of seats. Two is more than one.
I have two canvases for painting. One canvas is big and one canvas is small. The big canvas is more than the small one. Altogether, I have two canvases.
I have two caps on my head. One cap is red and one cap is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two caps.
I have two capes in my closet. One cape is red and one cape is blue. The red cape is longer than the blue cape. In total, I have two capes to wear.
A country has one capital city. Some countries have more than one capital city. Two capital cities are in one country. That is fewer than ten.
I have three capsicums in my garden. Two are red and one is green. Two is more than one. They are all growing in the sun.
I saw three capuchin monkeys at the zoo. Two monkeys were eating a banana. One monkey was playing with a stick. Two is more than one. In total, there were three monkeys in the tree.
I saw three capybaras at the pond. Two capybaras were eating grass. One capybara was swimming. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three capybaras.
I see six cars on the street. Three cars are red and three cars are blue. The red cars and blue cars have the same number. Two cars are big and four cars are small. Four is more than two.
I have six cards in my hand. Three cards are red and three cards are blue. The two colors have the same number of cards. Six is more than three.
I have three cards in my hand. My friend has five cards. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight cards.
Mom put three cardamom pods in the rice. Two cardamom pods are green and one is brown. Three is more than one. Altogether, they smell sweet.
I have two pieces of cardboard for my art project. My friend has three pieces of cardboard. Three is more than two. In total, we have five pieces of cardboard to build a castle.
I saw six cardinals in the tree. Four cardinals are red and two are brown. Four is more than two. In total, six cardinals sat on the branch.
The ship has ten big boxes of cargo. Two boxes are red and eight boxes are blue. Eight is more than two. In total, there are ten boxes on the ship.
At the carnival, I saw four big balloons and three red balloons. Four is more than three. In total, there are seven balloons floating in the sky.
A lion is a carnivore. I saw three lions at the zoo. Two lions were sleeping. One lion was eating meat. Three is more than one.
I have two carnivorous plants in my room. One plant ate three bugs. The other plant ate one bug. Three is more than one. In total, they ate four bugs.
I saw six carp swimming in the pond. Three carp are orange and three are white. The two colors have the same number of fish. Six is more than three.
There are three carpenters in the workshop. Two carpenters are sawing wood. One carpenter is hammering nails. Two is more than one. In total, three carpenters are working together.
I see two carpets on the floor. One carpet is big and one carpet is small. The big carpet is more than the small one. In total, there are two carpets.
I see four carriages on the train track. Two carriages are red and two are blue. The red ones have the same number as the blue ones. Altogether, there are four carriages.
I have six carrots on my plate. Three carrots are long and orange. Three carrots are short and orange. Three is the same as three. In total, I have six carrots to eat.
I see two carts in the yard. One cart is red and one cart is blue. They have the same number of wheels. In total, there are two carts.
I have three cartoon books on my shelf. My friend has two cartoon books. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five cartoon books.
I have two cases for my toys. One case is blue and one case is red. The two cases have the same number of toys inside.
I have five cashews in my hand. Two cashews are big and three are small. Three is more than two. Altogether, I have five cashews to eat.
I see five stars in Cassiopeia. Three stars are bright and two stars are dim. Three is more than two. They make a W shape in the sky.
I saw three cassowaries in the zoo. Two cassowaries had blue necks. One cassowary had a red neck. Two is more than one. In total, there were three big birds.
I see two castles in the sandbox. One castle has four towers. The other castle has three towers. Four is more than three. Altogether, there are seven towers.
There are five cats on the soft mat by the window. Three cats are black with white feet. Two cats are gray with bright eyes. Three is more than two. In total, there are five cats in the warm sun.
The kids built two catapults in the yard. One catapult can throw a ball far. The other catapult is smaller. Two is more than one. In total, they have two catapults to play with.
I see six caterpillars on the green leaf. Two caterpillars are big and four are small. Four is more than two. They all crawl slowly.
I see three catfish in the pond. Two catfish have long whiskers. One catfish is smaller than the other two. Three is more than one.
There are two catholic churches on our street. One church has a tall bell tower. The other church has a small garden. Two is more than one.
There are six cattle in the big field. Two cattle are brown and four cattle are black. Four is more than two. Altogether, they eat grass under the sun.
I have two cauliflowers in my basket. My friend has three cauliflowers. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five cauliflowers.
I see two caves in the big rock. One cave is small and one cave is big. The big cave has more space than the small cave. In total, there are two caves to explore.
I saw two cave paintings on the wall. One painting shows a big deer. The other painting shows a small deer. Two is more than one.
I have two CDs in my hand. My friend has three CDs. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five CDs.
I see three cedar trees in the yard. Two cedars are tall and one cedar is short. Two is more than one. In total, there are three cedars.
The room has one ceiling with four lights. Two lights are on and two lights are off. The same number of lights are on and off.
We had three small celebrations for my birthday. Two parties were at home with cake. One party was at school with friends. Two is more than one. In total, we had three celebrations.
There are three celebrities on the red carpet. Two celebrities wear shiny dresses. One celebrity wears a black suit. Two is more than one. In total, three celebrities smile for pictures.
I have three celery sticks on my plate. My friend has two celery sticks. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five celery sticks.
A plant has many cells. Five cells are round and green. Three cells are long and thin. Five is more than three. In total, the plant has eight cells.
Our cellar has six big jars. Three jars hold apples and three jars hold pears. The two groups have the same number of jars. Six is more than three.
I see two cellos in the music room. One cello is big and one cello is small. They have the same number of strings. Four strings are on each cello. In total, there are eight strings.
There are six graves in the small cemetery. Two graves have flowers and four graves have stones. Four is more than two. In total, there are six graves under the big tree.
I saw three centaurs in the forest. Two centaurs had brown fur and one had white fur. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three centaurs.
There are three red blocks in the center of the table. Two blue blocks are next to them. Three is more than two. In total, there are five blocks in the center.
I saw six centipedes in the garden. Four centipedes were under a big rock. Two centipedes were on the dirt. Four is more than two. In total, six centipedes have many tiny legs.
There are two big trees in Central Park. Three birds sit on one tree. Two birds sit on the other tree. Three is more than two. In total, five birds are in the park.
A computer has one central processing unit. Some computers have two central processing units. Two is more than one. They work together to run programs.
I have two ceramic cups on the shelf. One cup is blue and one cup is white. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I have six cereal bowls on the table. Three bowls have cereal and three bowls are empty. The full bowls have the same number as the empty ones. In total, there are six bowls.
The cerebellum is a part of the brain. A person has one cerebellum. It helps with balance and movement. Two eyes and two ears work with the cerebellum. The cerebellum is fewer than ten body parts.
There are five dwarf planets in our solar system. Ceres is one of them. Three dwarf planets are smaller than Ceres. One dwarf planet is larger than Ceres. Five is more than one.
There are five chads in the park. Three chads are playing on the swings. Two chads are sitting on the bench. Three is more than two.
I have six chains in my toy box. Three chains are long and three chains are short. The long chains have more links than the short ones. Altogether, I have six chains to play with.
I see three pieces of chain mail on the table. Two pieces are shiny and one piece is dull. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three pieces of chain mail.
Dad has two chainsaws in the shed. One chainsaw is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. In total, he has two chainsaws.
There are six chairs around the big table. Four chairs are blue and two chairs are red. Four is more than two. In total, six chairs are ready for the party.
I have six pieces of chalk in my hand. Three are white and three are blue. The two colors have the same number. I give one piece to a friend. Now I have fewer than six.
I saw three chameleons on a green leaf. Two chameleons were green and one was brown. Two is more than one. They all sat very still in the sun.
Two trains go through the Channel Tunnel. One train goes from England to France. Another train goes from France to England. That is the same number of trains in each direction.
I read two chapters in my book today. One chapter had a dragon and the other had a princess. Two is more than one. Altogether, I read two chapters before bed.
The story has five characters. Three characters are children and two characters are adults. Three is more than two. In total, five characters are in the book.
I have two chard leaves on my plate. My friend has three chard leaves. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five chard leaves.
I see two chariots in the picture. One chariot has red wheels and one chariot has blue wheels. They have the same number of wheels. Two is more than one.
Charlie has two red cars and three blue cars. He has more blue cars than red cars. In total, Charlie has five cars.
I see three charts on the wall. Two charts show numbers and one chart shows shapes. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three charts.
I have four red checkers and four black checkers. The two colors have the same number. In total, I have eight checkers to play with.
I have two cheeks on my face. Each cheek is soft and round. Two cheeks are the same as two little pillows. One cheek is smaller than the other.
I have two pieces of cheese on my plate. My friend has three pieces of cheese. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five pieces of cheese.
I saw three cheetahs at the zoo. Two cheetahs were running fast. One cheetah was resting. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three cheetahs.
There are three chefs in the big kitchen. Two chefs are making soup and one chef is cutting bread. Two is more than one. Altogether, they work hard to make dinner.
The scientist has five small bottles of chemicals. Three bottles are blue and two bottles are clear. Three is more than two. In total, there are five bottles on the table.
A chemical element is a tiny thing you cannot see. There are over one hundred elements in the world. Two elements can join to make something new. That is fewer than ten elements together.
I have two toy pandas from Chengdu. My friend has three toy pandas from Chengdu. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five toy pandas.
I have two cheques in my hand. One cheque is for my mom and one cheque is for my dad. They have the same number of cheques. Two is more than one.
I have six cherries in my bowl. Two cherries are red and four cherries are dark red. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six sweet cherries.
I have two chess sets at home. One set has thirty-two pieces. The other set has the same number of pieces. Two sets are more than one set.
I have one chest on my body. My chest has two small nipples. One is fewer than two.
I found six chestnuts under the big tree. Four chestnuts are brown and shiny. Two chestnuts have small cracks. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six chestnuts in my basket.
There are six chicks in the yard. Two chicks are yellow and four chicks are brown. Four is more than two. Altogether, they peck at the ground.
There are six chickens in the yard. Four chickens are pecking at the ground. Two chickens are drinking water. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six chickens.
Mom cooked six chicken pieces for dinner. I ate two pieces and my brother ate two pieces. We ate the same number. Two pieces are left on the plate. Six is more than two.
I have six chickpeas on my plate. I ate two chickpeas. Now I have four chickpeas left. Four is more than two.
I picked six chicory flowers from the field. Three flowers are blue and three flowers are white. The two colors have the same number. Six is more than three.
There are six children playing in the park. Four children are on the swings. Two children are on the slide. Four is more than two. In total, six children are having fun.
I see two chiles on the plate. One chile is red and one chile is green. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I have three chili peppers in my hand. Two are red and one is green. Two is more than one. In total, I have three chili peppers.
Our house has two chimneys on the roof. One chimney is tall and red. The other chimney is short and gray. Two is more than one. Altogether, they let the smoke out.
I saw four chimpanzees at the zoo. Two chimpanzees were eating bananas. Two chimpanzees were climbing trees. Two is the same as two. In total, there were four chimpanzees.
I have one chin on my face. My dad has one chin too. We have the same number of chins. Two chins in total in our family.
I have two toy pandas from China. My friend has three toy pandas. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five toy pandas.
I see five Chinese characters on the page. Three characters are big and two are small. Three is more than two. In total, there are five characters.
I have three chinese food boxes on the table. Two boxes have rice and one box has noodles. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three boxes of chinese food.
I have six chips on my plate. My friend has four chips. Six is more than four. Altogether, we have ten chips.
I heard three chirps from the tree. Two chirps came from a small bird. One chirp was louder than the other two. Three is more than two.
I have two chisels in my toolbox. One chisel is big and one chisel is small. The big chisel is more than the small one in size.
I have three pieces of chocolate. My friend has five pieces. Five is more than three. Altogether we have eight pieces of chocolate.
There are six children in the choir. Four children sing loud and two children sing soft. Four is more than two. Altogether, they make a happy sound.
I have six chopsticks in my hand. Two chopsticks make one pair. Three pairs are more than one pair. Altogether, I have three pairs of chopsticks.
I see three chords on the music stand. Two chords are long and one chord is short. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three chords.
There is one Christ the Redeemer statue in Rio de Janeiro. Two friends look up at the big statue. One statue is more than zero. They smile and wave at the statue.
We sang two Christmas carols at school. One carol was about a star. The other carol was about a baby. Two is more than one. Altogether, we sang two carols.
I have six chrysanthemums in my garden. Three are yellow and three are pink. The yellow ones have the same number as the pink ones. Two yellow flowers have big petals. Four pink flowers have small petals.
There are three churches on our street. One church has a tall tower. Two churches have small bells. Three is more than two.
I see two churches on the street. One church has a tall tower. The other church has a short tower. The tall tower is more than the short tower. Altogether, there are two churches.
I saw six cicadas on the tree. Two cicadas were singing loudly. Four cicadas were quiet. Four is more than two. In total, six cicadas sat on the big branch.
I have five cichlids in my fish tank. Two cichlids are blue and three are yellow. Three is more than two. They swim together all day.
Mom poured two cups of cider for us. I drank one cup and my sister drank one cup. We had the same number of cups. In total, we drank two cups of cider.
Two sisters went to the ball. Cinderella had no dress. Three mice helped her. Two is fewer than three.
Mom put two cinnamon sticks in the hot tea. She also added one more cinnamon stick. Three is more than two. Altogether, there are three cinnamon sticks in the cup.
I drew six circles on my paper. Three circles are big and three circles are small. They have the same number. Six is more than three.
I have two toy circuits on my desk. One circuit has a small light. The other circuit has a buzzer. Two is more than one.
There are three circuit breakers in the box. Two are on and one is off. Two is more than one. They help keep the lights safe.
A person has one circulatory system in their body. The heart pumps blood through many tubes. Five tubes carry blood to the lungs and five tubes carry blood back. The number of tubes is more than one.
There are three clowns at the circus. Two clowns have red noses. One clown has a big hat. Two is more than one. In total, there are three clowns making us laugh.
I have four citrus fruits in my basket. Two are oranges and two are lemons. The number of oranges is the same as the number of lemons. Altogether, I have four citrus fruits.
I see three cities on the map. Two cities are big and one city is small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three cities.
Our street has three city blocks. One block has a big park with two swings. Two blocks have houses with four trees each. Three is more than one.
There are five city-states on the map. Two city-states have big walls and three have tall towers. Three is more than two. In total, five city-states are shown.
I found four clams at the beach. Two clams are open and two clams are closed. The same number are open and closed. In total, I have four clams in my bucket.
I have two clamps on my desk. One clamp is red and one clamp is blue. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
Our clan has ten people in total. Four are children and six are adults. Six is more than four. They all live together in one big house.
I heard two clangs from the kitchen. One clang was loud and one clang was soft. Two is more than one.
I see two clarinets on the table. One clarinet is long and black. The other clarinet is shorter. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are two clarinets.
There are ten children in my class. Five children sit at one table and five children sit at another table. The two tables have the same number of children. In total, there are ten children in the class.
I have six classmates in my group. Three classmates have red backpacks. Three classmates have blue backpacks. The two groups have the same number. Altogether, there are six classmates.
Our classroom has ten desks in a row. Four desks are blue and six desks are red. Six is more than four. In total, there are ten desks for all the kids.
A cat has five claws on each front paw. That is ten claws in total. Two claws are more than one claw.
I heard two clicks from the door. Then one more click came. Three clicks is more than two.
There are three cliffs near the big blue lake. Two cliffs are tall and one cliff is short. Two is more than one. In total, there are three cliffs.
There are four clinics on our street. Two clinics have big windows and two clinics have small doors. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there are four clinics near the park.
I have three paper clips on my desk. Two clips are silver and one clip is red. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three clips to hold my papers.
I have two cloaks in my closet. One cloak is red and one cloak is blue. Two is more than one. They keep me warm on cold days.
There are three clocks on the wall. Two clocks are round and one clock is square. Two is more than one. In total, there are three clocks ticking.
I have two toy clones that look the same. They are both small and blue. One clone has a red hat. The other clone has no hat. Two is more than one.
My closet has three shelves. Two shelves hold my shirts and one shelf holds my shoes. Two is more than one. In total, I have three shelves in my closet.
I have three cloths to clean the table. One cloth is blue and two cloths are red. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three cloths.
I have six clothes in my closet. Four clothes are shirts and two clothes are pants. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six clothes to wear.
I have seven clothes in my closet. Four are shirts and three are pants. Four is more than three. Altogether, I have seven clothes to wear.
Mom put six socks in the clothes dryer. Three socks are blue and three socks are red. They have the same number. Two socks are still wet. Six is more than two.
I have seven pieces of clothing in my drawer. Three are shirts and four are pants. Four is more than three. In total, I have seven pieces of clothing to wear.
I see six clouds in the sky. Three clouds are big and white. Three clouds are small and fluffy. The big clouds are more than the small ones. In total, there are six clouds floating above.
I have three cloves of garlic on the cutting board. Two cloves are small and one clove is big. Two is more than one. In total, I have three cloves to put in the soup.
I saw three clowns at the park. Two clowns had red noses and one clown had a big smile. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three clowns making people laugh.
I have two clubs in my toy box. My friend has three clubs. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five clubs.
The knight has two clubs in his hands. One club is big and one club is small. The big club is more than the small club. In total, he has two clubs to fight.
I found three clues in the big book. Two clues are about a red bird. One clue is about a blue fish. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three clues to solve the puzzle.
There are three coaches at the park. One coach has a red whistle. Two coaches have blue shirts. Two is more than one. In total, three coaches help the kids play.
I see three lumps of coal in the bucket. Two lumps are big and one lump is small. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three lumps of coal.
I have two coats in my closet. One coat is red and one coat is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two warm coats.
I saw six cockatoos in the park. Two cockatoos had white feathers and four had yellow feathers. Four is more than two. They all flew to a big tree.
I saw six cockroaches in the kitchen. Two cockroaches ran under the fridge. Four cockroaches stayed near the sink. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six cockroaches.
I have three cups of cocoa. My friend has two cups of cocoa. Three is more than two. In total, we have five cups of warm cocoa.
I see three coconut palms in the yard. Two palms have big green leaves. One palm is shorter than the others. Three is more than one.
I see three cod fish in the big tank. Two cod are gray and one cod is brown. Two is more than one. They swim together in the water.
I saw two coelacanths at the aquarium. One coelacanth was big and blue. The other coelacanth was smaller. Two is more than one.
Mom poured two cups of coffee. Dad drank one cup. One is fewer than two. One cup is left on the table.
I have two coils of wire on my desk. One coil is big and one coil is small. The big coil has more loops than the small coil. In total, I have two coils.
I have seven coins in my pocket. Three coins are shiny and four coins are dull. Four is more than three. Altogether, I have seven coins to buy a snack.
I have two cans of coke. My friend has three cans of coke. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five cans of coke.
I made a collage with six pictures. My friend used four pictures. Six is more than four. In total, we used ten pictures for our collages.
I have three crayons: one red, one blue, and one yellow. Three is more than one. They are all different colors.
The colosseum has four big gates. Two gates are open for people to walk in. Two gates are closed. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four gates at the colosseum.
Some people have three types of colour vision cells. Other people have only two types. Three is more than two. In total, they see colours in different ways.
I see four tall columns at the front of the big building. Two columns are on the left side and two columns are on the right side. The left side has the same number as the right side. Four is more than two.
I have two combs in my drawer. One comb is red and one comb is blue. They have the same number of teeth. Two is more than one.
I see two combine harvesters in the big field. One combine harvester is red and one is green. They have the same number of wheels. Two is more than one.
I saw two comets in the sky last night. One comet was very bright. The other comet was dim. Two is more than one. Altogether, I saw two comets.
I have three comic books on my shelf. My friend has five comic books. Five is more than three. In total, we have eight comic books.
I have three comic books on my shelf. My friend has five comic books. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight comic books.
I have three comics on my bed. My friend has two comics. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five comics to read.
Two kids have a common cold. One kid has a runny nose. The other kid has a cough. Two is more than one. They both rest in bed.
I see five common wheat plants in the garden. Three plants have tall stems and two plants have short stems. Three is more than two. In total, there are five wheat plants growing in the sun.
There are two communications satellites in the sky. One satellite sends signals to Earth. Two is more than one. They help people talk to each other far away.
Our community has ten houses on one street. Five houses have red doors and five houses have blue doors. The same number of houses have red and blue doors. Two houses have big trees in front. Ten is more than two.
There are three toy companies in our town. One company makes red cars and two companies make blue trucks. Two is more than one. In total, they make many toys for kids.
I have two red blocks and three blue blocks. Three is more than two. Altogether, I have five blocks.
I have two compasses in my desk. One compass points north and one compass points south. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two compasses to find my way.
There are three composers in the room. Two composers write music with a pencil. One composer uses a computer. Two is more than one. In total, three composers make songs.
I see two computers in the room. One computer is on the desk. The other computer is on the floor. Two is more than one. They are both black.
I have two computer data storage boxes. One box holds three games. The other box holds five games. Five is more than three.
I have two computer files on my desk. One file has a picture of a dog. The other file has a picture of a cat. Two is more than one.
I see two computers on the desk. One computer is big and one computer is small. They have the same number of screens. Two is more than one.
I see two computer monitors on the desk. One monitor shows a blue screen and one monitor shows a green screen. They have the same number of screens. Two is more than one.
I see three computer mice on the desk. One mouse is black and two mice are white. Two is more than one. In total, there are three mice.
There are five computers in the network. Two computers are on the desk and three are on the floor. Three is more than two. In total, they are all connected.
I wrote two computer programs today. One program shows a happy face. The other program plays a little song. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two programs on my computer.
I see three concrete blocks on the ground. Two blocks are big and one block is small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three blocks.
A doctor saw two kids with a concussion. One kid had a headache and one kid felt dizzy. Two is more than one. In total, two kids needed rest.
I see four condiment packets on the table. Two are ketchup and two are mustard. They have the same number. In total, there are four condiment packets.
I saw three condors flying high in the sky. Two condors have big wings. One condor is smaller. Two is more than one. In total, three condors are circling above.
I have three cones on my desk. Two cones are red and one cone is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three cones.
I see three conifers in the yard. Two conifers are tall and one is short. Two is more than one. They have green needles all year.
I see two connectors on the table. One connector is red and one is blue. They are the same number. Two is more than one.
I see four consonants in the word "cat". The letters c, t are consonants. Two consonants are fewer than four. In total, there are two consonants in "cat".
I see three stars in a row. Four more stars make a shape. Seven stars in total make a constellation. Seven is more than three.
I have two tablets at home. My brother has three tablets. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five tablets.
I have three containers on my desk. One container holds crayons and two containers hold blocks. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three containers.
There are seven continents on Earth. Four continents have many people living on them. Three continents have fewer people than the others. Seven is more than three.
There are fifteen islands in the Cook Islands. Two islands are big and thirteen are small. Two is fewer than thirteen. In total, there are fifteen islands in the blue ocean.
I have two cookbooks on the shelf. My friend has three cookbooks. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five cookbooks.
Mom baked ten cookies for us. I ate three cookies and my brother ate three cookies. We ate the same number. Four cookies are left on the plate. Ten is more than four.
Mom has three pots and two pans in the kitchen. Five pieces of cookware are on the shelf. Three is more than two. Altogether, they help make dinner.
Mom baked ten cooky treats. I ate two cooky treats and my sister ate three. Three is more than two. Five cooky treats are left on the plate.
There are two cooling towers at the power plant. One tower is tall and the other is short. The tall tower is more than the short one. In total, there are two towers.
There are three cops on the street. Two cops are in a car and one cop is walking. Two is more than one. In total, there are three cops keeping us safe.
I saw six corals in the big tank. Three corals are pink and three corals are white. They have the same number. Two small fish swim near the pink corals.
I saw two coral reefs at the beach. One reef had three fish. The other reef had five fish. Five is more than three. In total, there were eight fish near the reefs.
There are five coral sea fish swimming near the reef. Two fish are orange and three fish are blue. Three is more than two. In total, five fish live in the coral sea.
I saw two coral snakes in the garden. One snake had red and black rings. The other snake had yellow rings too. Two is more than one. They were both very pretty.
I have two cords for my headphones. My friend has three cords for her lamp. Three is more than two. In total, we have five cords.
I have three corks on my desk. Two corks are from juice bottles. One cork is from a wine bottle. Three is more than one.
I see four cormorants on the dock. Two cormorants have black feathers. Two cormorants have white feathers. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four cormorants.
I have six ears of corn. Mom cooked three ears for dinner. I ate two ears. Three is more than two. One ear is left on the plate.
The room has four corners. One corner has a tall plant. Another corner has a small chair. Two corners are empty. Four is more than two.
A sick person can have many coronavirus germs. Three tiny coronaviruses sit on a toy. Two more join them. Five is more than three. Altogether, five coronaviruses are on the toy.
I have three correct answers on my paper. My friend has five correct answers. Five is more than three. In total, we have eight correct answers.
Mom has five cosmetics on her table. Two are lipsticks and three are small bottles. Three is more than two. Altogether, she has five cosmetics.
I have three costumes in my closet. One is a red superhero cape. Two are animal suits. Three is more than one.
I have two cotton balls in my hand. My friend has three cotton balls. Three is more than two. In total, we have five cotton balls.
We have two couches in the living room. One couch is big and blue. The other couch is small and green. Two is more than one. In total, we have two couches to sit on.
There are three counters on the table. Two counters are red and one counter is blue. Two is more than one. In total, there are three counters.
There are seven countries in my picture book. Three countries are big and four countries are small. Four is more than three. In total, seven countries have flags of different colors.
There are two courts at the park. One court is for basketball and one court is for tennis. Two is more than one. In total, there are two courts to play on.
I have three cousins. Two cousins live in my town. One cousin lives far away. Two is more than one. In total, I have three cousins.
There are six cows in the green field. Four cows are eating grass and two cows are resting. Four is more than two. In total, there are six cows under the blue sky.
There are six cowboys on the ranch. Two cowboys ride horses and four cowboys fix fences. Four is more than two. In total, six cowboys work together.
I saw four coyotes near the big hill. Two coyotes were running fast. Two coyotes were sitting still. Two is the same as two. In total, four coyotes were out in the field.
I saw four crabs on the beach. Two crabs were big and two crabs were small. The big crabs have more legs than the small ones. In total, there are four crabs.
I have six crackers on my plate. I ate two crackers and now I have four crackers left. Four is more than two.
I heard two crackles from the fire. Then three more crackles came. Five crackles in total is more than two.
I have three cranberries in my bowl. My friend has five cranberries. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight cranberries.
I see two cranes at the construction site. One crane is tall and one crane is short. The tall crane lifts more than the short crane. In total, there are two cranes working today.
I saw four cranes by the pond. Two cranes have long legs and two cranes have white feathers. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four cranes standing in the water.
I saw two cranes at the building site. One crane is tall and yellow. The other crane is shorter. Two is more than one. They lift heavy things together.
I saw four crane flies on the wall. Two crane flies have long legs. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four crane flies.
I see three crayfish in the pond. Two crayfish are hiding under a rock. One crayfish is walking on the sand. Two is more than one. They have small claws.
I have six crayons in my box. Three crayons are red and three are blue. The red and blue groups have the same number. Two crayons are green. Six is more than two.
I have two bowls of cream on the table. One bowl has more cream than the other. In total, there are two bowls of cream.
I saw six creatures in the pond. Four creatures are frogs and two are fish. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six creatures swimming.
I have two credit cards in my wallet. One is blue and one is green. Two is more than one. They are both for buying things.
I see two creeks in the park. One creek has three small fish. The other creek has five small fish. Five is more than three. Altogether, there are eight fish in the two creeks.
We have two cribs in the nursery. One crib is for the baby doll and one crib is for the teddy bear. They have the same number of blankets.
We played cricket in the park. Six children played cricket. Two children were batting. Four children were fielding. Four is more than two. In total, six children played cricket.
I saw six crickets in the garden. Four crickets are green and two are brown. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six crickets hopping in the grass.
I see four crocodiles in the muddy river. Two crocodiles are big and two are small. The big ones have more teeth than the small ones. Altogether, there are four crocodiles.
The farmer has ten crops in the field. Five crops are tall corn and five crops are short beans. The two groups have the same number. Ten is more than five.
I see two crosses on the hill. One cross is tall and one cross is short. The tall cross is more than the short one. In total, there are two crosses.
I saw two crossbows in the toy shop. One crossbow has a red string and one crossbow has a blue string. They have the same number of arrows. Two is more than one.
I saw six crows in the big tree. Three crows flew away. Now three crows are left. Three is fewer than six.
There are ten people in the crowd. Five people wear red hats and five people wear blue hats. The two groups have the same number. Ten is more than five.
The queen has three crowns on her head. One crown is gold and two crowns are silver. Two is more than one. Altogether, she has three shiny crowns.
I see three crumbs on the table. Two crumbs are big and one crumb is small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three crumbs.
I have two pieces of pizza crust on my plate. My friend has three pieces of crust. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five pieces of crust.
I see three crustaceans in the tide pool. Two are crabs with hard shells. One is a shrimp with long feelers. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three crustaceans.
I have three small crystals on my desk. Two crystals are clear and one is pink. Two is more than one. They sparkle in the light.
I see two cubs playing near the big tree. One cub is brown and one cub is black. Two is more than one. They are very small and cute.
I have four red cubes and three blue cubes. Four is more than three. In total, I have seven cubes to stack.
A cubit is an old way to measure length. My arm has one cubit from elbow to fingertip. Two cubits are more than one cubit. Three cubits are the same as three of my arms.
I saw three cuckoo birds in the tall tree. Two cuckoos flew away. One cuckoo stayed. One is fewer than three.
I have three cucumbers in my lunch box. My friend has two cucumbers. Three is more than two. In total, we have five cucumbers.
I see two cumulonimbus clouds in the sky. One cloud is big and one cloud is small. The big cloud is more than the small cloud. They look like fluffy cotton balls.
I see four cumulus clouds in the sky. Two clouds are big and fluffy. Two clouds are small and round. Four is more than two. They float slowly across the blue sky.
I have two cups on the table. One cup is blue and one cup is red. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
There are six cups in the cupboard. Four cups are blue and two cups are red. Four is more than two. In total, there are six cups on the shelf.
Curie has two small hands and two small feet. She has five fingers on each hand. The number of fingers on her left hand is the same as on her right hand. In total, she has ten fingers.
I have two curls in my hair. My sister has four curls. Four is more than two.
I have three coins in my pocket. My friend has five coins. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight coins.
Mom made six bowls of curry for dinner. I ate two bowls and Dad ate two bowls. We ate the same number. Two bowls are left on the stove. Six is more than two.
I have four curtains in my room. Two curtains are blue and two curtains are white. The blue ones are the same number as the white ones. In total, there are four curtains.
I see two curves on the paper. One curve is big and one curve is small. The big curve is more than the small curve. They look like two smiles.
I have six cushions on my bed. Two cushions are blue and four cushions are green. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six cushions to sit on.
I have three custom toys on my shelf. Two are red and one is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three custom toys to play with.
There are six customers in the shop. Three customers are buying bread. Three customers are buying milk. Three is the same as three. In total, six customers are here.
I see six pieces of cutlery on the table. Three forks and three spoons are there. The forks and spoons have the same number. Two knives are fewer than three forks.
I see three cycads in the park. Two cycads are tall and one is short. Two is more than one. They have green leaves that look like feathers.
There are three bikes in the race. Two bikes are red and one bike is blue. Two is more than one. In total, three bikes ride fast around the track.
I see two cymbals on the shelf. One cymbal is big and one cymbal is small. They are not the same size. Two is more than one.
I see three cypress trees in the park. Two cypress trees are tall and one is short. Two is more than one. In total, there are three cypress trees.
My dad has two big hands. He can hold three toys in one hand. Two is fewer than three. In total, he can hold five toys with both hands.
My daddy has two big hands. He can hold three toys in one hand. Two is fewer than three. In total, he can hold five toys with both hands.
The knight has two daggers on his belt. One dagger is shiny and silver. The other dagger is shorter. Two is more than one.
I have six dahlias in my garden. Two dahlias are red and four are pink. Four is more than two. In total, I have six pretty flowers.
Mom cut two daikons for the soup. One daikon is big and white. The other daikon is small. The big daikon is more than the small one. In total, we have two daikons.
I have two dairy products in my lunch. One is a small cup of yogurt. The other is a slice of cheese. Two is more than one.
I picked six daisies from the garden. Three daisies are white and three are yellow. The two colors have the same number. In total, I have six daisies in my hand.
I have two toy cars from Dakar. My friend has three toy cars from Dakar. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five toy cars.
There are three dams on the river. Two dams are big and one dam is small. Two is more than one. They hold back the water.
I saw four damselflies by the pond. Two damselflies have blue wings and two have green wings. The blue ones are the same number as the green ones. Four is more than two.
I saw six dancers on the big stage. Four dancers wore red shoes and two dancers wore blue shoes. Four is more than two. Altogether, six dancers moved to the music.
Daniel had three friends in the palace. Four men prayed to God every day. Three is fewer than four. In total, they stayed faithful.
There are three boats on the Danube river. Two boats are big and one boat is small. Two is more than one. Altogether, three boats float on the water.
I saw four darters in the clear stream. Two darters hid under a rock. Two more darters swam near the sand. Four is more than two. They all have tiny fins.
I have three darts in my hand. My friend has two darts. Three is more than two. We have five darts in total.
I have two data points on my paper. My friend has three data points. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five data points.
I see three date palms in the yard. Two date palms have sweet fruit. One date palm is small. Two is more than one.
I have two daughters. One daughter has a red dress. The other daughter has a blue dress. Two is more than one.
David has two red cars and three blue cars. He has more blue cars than red cars. In total, David has five cars.
There are seven days in one week. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday are five school days. Saturday and Sunday are two weekend days. Five is more than two. In total, there are seven days.
I have two dear friends. They give me three hugs. Two is fewer than three.
I have two debit cards in my wallet. Mom has three debit cards. Three is more than two. In total, we have five debit cards.
I saw four decapods at the beach. Two decapods had big claws. Two decapods had small claws. Two is the same as two. In total, there were four decapods.
There are two decks on the big ship. One deck is for sitting in the sun. The other deck is for playing games. Two is more than one. In total, there are two decks to explore.
I see six decorations on the tree. Three are shiny stars and three are red balls. The stars and balls have the same number. In total, there are six decorations.
I see six deep-sea fish in the dark water. Two fish have big teeth and four fish have small teeth. Four is more than two. They all glow with tiny lights.
I saw six deer in the forest. Two deer were eating grass. Four deer were resting under a tree. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six deer.
The castle has two defensive walls. The first wall is tall and the second wall is short. One wall is more than zero walls. Altogether, there are two walls to keep the castle safe.
A circle has three hundred sixty degrees in total. A right angle has ninety degrees. Ninety is fewer than three hundred sixty.
The story has three deities in the sky. One deity is the sun god and two deities are the moon and star gods. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three deities watching over us.
There are five big gates in Delhi. Three gates are old and two gates are new. Three is more than two. In total, five gates stand tall.
A bear sleeps in a den with two cubs. Three dens are on the hill. Two is fewer than three.
I have two dental fillings in my mouth. My friend has three fillings. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five fillings.
There are two dentists at the clinic. One dentist checks my teeth. The other dentist cleans them. Two is more than one. They help keep my teeth healthy.
Grandpa has two dentures in a cup. One denture is for the top and one denture is for the bottom. They are the same number. Two is more than one.
There are five Denver flags in the classroom. Two flags are on the wall and three flags are on the desk. Three is more than two. In total, five flags show the city name.
There are six desks in our classroom. Four desks are blue and two desks are yellow. Four is more than two. In total, we have six desks for the children.
Mom made six desserts for the party. I ate two desserts and my brother ate two desserts. We ate the same number. Two desserts are left on the table. Six is more than two.
I saw two devils in my dream. One devil had big horns and one devil had a long tail. Two is more than one.
Dhaka is a big city with many people. I see five red rickshaws on the road. Two rickshaws have one passenger each. Three rickshaws have more than one passenger. In total, there are five rickshaws.
I have two dials on my toy clock. One dial is big and one dial is small. The big dial has more numbers than the small dial. Altogether, they help me tell the time.
I have three diamonds in my hand. Two diamonds are shiny and one is small. Two is more than one. In total, I have three diamonds.
Mom bought six diapers for the baby. She used two diapers in the morning and four diapers after lunch. Four is more than two. In total, six diapers are clean and ready.
I have two diaries on my shelf. One diary has a pink cover and one diary has a blue cover. They have the same number of pages. Two is more than one.
I have two dice in my hand. One dice has three dots on top. The other dice has five dots. Five is more than three. Altogether, they have eight dots.
I have two dictionaries on my desk. One dictionary is big and one dictionary is small. The big one has more pages than the small one. In total, I have two dictionaries to look up words.
I have two dice in my hand. One die has five dots on top. The other die has three dots. Five is more than three. Altogether, they have eight dots.
The truck has one diesel engine. Two diesel engines are more than one. They make the big truck go.
I have two digital cameras. One camera is black and one camera is silver. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two cameras to take pictures.
I see three dimetrodons near the water. Two dimetrodons have big sails on their backs. One dimetrodon is smaller than the others. Three is more than one.
I have two dimples on my cheeks. My friend has one dimple. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have three dimples.
I saw three dingoes near the big rock. Two dingoes were sleeping in the sun. One dingo was looking for food. Two is more than one. In total, there were three dingoes.
We have five plates for dinner. Three plates have rice and two plates have soup. Three is more than two. In total, we have five plates on the table.
I see six dinosaurs in the park. Three dinosaurs are big and three are small. The big ones have the same number as the small ones. Two dinosaurs are eating leaves. Four dinosaurs are playing in the mud.
I saw two diplodocuses at the museum. One diplodocus had a long neck. Two is more than one. They were very big.
A doctor saw five sick children. Two children had a disease with a cough. Three children had a disease with a fever. Three is more than two. In total, five children were sick.
Mom washed six dishes after dinner. Three dishes are big plates and three dishes are small bowls. The big plates and small bowls have the same number. In total, six dishes are clean and dry.
We have two dishwashers in the big kitchen. One dishwasher is full of plates. The other dishwasher has fewer plates than the first one. In total, they hold many dishes.
I see two djembes on the floor. One djembe is big and one djembe is small. The big one is more than the small one in size. They are both drums.
There are three ducks at the dock. Two ducks are in the water and one duck is on the dock. Two is more than one. In total, there are three ducks near the dock.
There are three doctors in the big hospital. Two doctors help sick children. One doctor helps grown-ups. Two is more than one. In total, three doctors work hard all day.
There were three dodo birds on the island. Two dodos had brown feathers and one had gray feathers. Two is more than one. In total, three dodos lived together.
I see six dogs in the park. Four dogs are brown and two dogs are white. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six dogs playing.
I have three dolls on my bed. Two dolls have pink dresses. One doll has a blue dress. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three dolls to play with.
I have three dollars in my pocket. My friend has five dollars. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight dollars.
I saw six dolphins jump in the sea. Three dolphins were big and three were small. The big ones are the same number as the small ones. Six is more than three.
The big dome has two doors. One door is open and one door is closed. Two is more than one. In total, there are two doors on the dome.
There are six domestic sheep in the green field. Four sheep have white wool and two sheep have black wool. Four is more than two. Altogether, they make soft sounds.
I have six dominoes in my hand. You have four dominoes on the table. Six is more than four. Altogether, we have ten dominoes to play with.
I see four donkeys in the field. Two donkeys are eating hay. Two donkeys are resting under a tree. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there are four donkeys.
I see four doors in the hallway. Two doors are open and two doors are closed. The open doors are fewer than the closed doors. In total, there are four doors.
I saw two dormice in the garden. One dormouse was eating a nut. The other dormouse was sleeping. Two is more than one.
I drew six dots on my paper. Three dots are red and three dots are blue. They have the same number. Six is more than three.
I see two double basses in the music room. One double bass is big and brown. The other double bass is a little smaller. They have the same number of strings. Four strings are on each double bass. Two is fewer than four.
Mom bought six doughnuts at the shop. I ate two doughnuts, and my sister ate two doughnuts. We ate the same number. Two doughnuts are left in the box. Six is more than two.
I saw five doves on the roof. Three doves are white and two doves are gray. Three is more than two. In total, there are five doves sitting together.
I have two Dracula toys on my bed. One Dracula has a red cape and one Dracula has a black cape. They are the same number as my two teddy bears.
I see two dragons in the sky. One dragon is green and one dragon is red. Two is more than one. They fly very fast.
I saw six dragonflies near the pond. Four dragonflies have blue wings. Two dragonflies have green wings. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six dragonflies flying fast.
There are two drains in the kitchen floor. One drain is near the sink and one drain is by the wall. They have the same number of holes. Two is more than one.
I have six drawers in my dresser. Three drawers hold my socks and three drawers hold my shirts. The two sides have the same number of drawers. Six is more than three.
I have three dresses in my closet. Two dresses are blue and one dress is red. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three dresses to wear.
Dad has two drills in the garage. One drill is big and one drill is small. The big drill is more than the small drill in size. In total, he has two drills to fix things.
Mom poured two drinks for me and two drinks for Dad. We have the same number of drinks. In total, there are four drinks on the table.
There are four drivers in the race. Two drivers have red cars and two drivers have blue cars. The number of red cars is the same as the number of blue cars. In total, four drivers race around the track.
I see two drones in the sky. One drone is red and one drone is blue. Two is more than one. They fly together.
I have two drums in my room. One drum is big and one drum is small. The big drum makes a loud sound. Two is more than one.
I have been to Dublin two times. My friend went there three times. Three is more than two.
I see six ducks in the pond. Four ducks are swimming and two ducks are on the grass. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six ducks.
Mom made ten dumplings for dinner. I ate four dumplings and my brother ate four dumplings. We ate the same number. Two dumplings are left on the plate.
I see two dunes in the desert. One dune is tall and one dune is short. The tall dune is more than the short one. Two dunes sit side by side in the sand.
I see two dung beetles rolling a ball. One beetle pushes from behind. Two is more than one. They work together to move the ball.
I have three durians on the table. My friend has two durians. Three is more than two. In total, we have five durians.
I see three specks of dust on the shelf. Two specks are near the book. One speck is far away. Two is more than one. In total, there are three specks of dust.
I have three DVDs on my shelf. My friend has five DVDs. Five is more than three. In total, we have eight DVDs.
I see two dwarf galaxies in the big sky. One dwarf galaxy is small and round. The other dwarf galaxy is even smaller. One is more than the other in size.
There are five dwarf planets in our solar system. Pluto is one dwarf planet. Ceres is another dwarf planet. Two is fewer than five. In total, we know five dwarf planets.
Mom has two bottles of blue dye and one bottle of red dye. Two is more than one. She uses them to color the eggs.
I see two sticks of dynamite on the ground. One stick is longer than the other. Two is more than one.
I have three e-mails on my tablet. Mom has two e-mails on her phone. Three is more than two. In total, we have five e-mails.
I see two eagles flying high in the sky. Three eagles sit on a big rock. Three is more than two. Altogether, there are five eagles.
I have two ears on my head. One ear is on the left side and one ear is on the right side. They have the same number of ears. Two is more than one.
I saw four eared seals on the big rock. Two seals were sleeping and two seals were playing. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there were four eared seals in the sun.
There are six earless seals on the ice. Two seals are sleeping and four seals are swimming. Four is more than two. In total, six earless seals are in the cold water.
The earth has one big moon in the sky. Two moons are fewer than one moon, but we only have one. The earth and the moon are different sizes.
The earth's crust has many layers. Three layers are on top and seven layers are below. Seven is more than three. In total, there are ten layers in the earth's crust.
I found six earthworms in the garden. Two earthworms are long and four are short. Four is more than two. They wiggled in the dirt.
I saw four earwigs under a big rock. Two earwigs had long pincers. Two earwigs were smaller. Two is the same as two. In total, four earwigs crawled away.
We have six easter eggs in the basket. Three eggs are blue and three eggs are pink. The two colors have the same number. In total, we have six eggs to hide.
I saw two echidnas in the park. One echidna had a long snout. The other echidna had a short snout. Two is more than one.
I saw five echinoderms at the tide pool. Three echinoderms were starfish and two were sea urchins. Three is more than two. They all have spiny skin.
I heard two echoes in the big cave. One echo was loud and one echo was soft. The loud echo was more than the soft one. In total, there were two echoes.
A pond is a small ecosystem. I see five fish and three frogs in it. Five is more than three. Altogether, eight animals live in the pond.
The table has four edges. Two edges are short and two edges are long. The short edges have the same length as each other. Four is more than two.
I see four eels in the big tank. Two eels are long and two eels are short. The long eels are more than the short ones. Altogether, there are four eels.
I have four eggs in the basket. Two eggs are brown and two eggs are white. The brown eggs and white eggs have the same number. Altogether, there are four eggs.
I have two toy pyramids from Egypt. My friend has three toy pyramids. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five toy pyramids.
There are two Eiffel Towers in my toy box. One is big and one is small. The big one is taller than the small one. Two is more than one.
I saw two Eiffel Towers in my book. One is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one.
I have eight crayons in my box. Four crayons are red and four crayons are blue. The red ones and blue ones have the same number. Eight is more than four.
There are two pictures of Einstein in our classroom. One picture shows his funny hair. The other picture shows his kind smile. Two is more than one.
I have two red blocks and two blue blocks. They are the same number. In total, I have four blocks.
I have two elbows on my arms. One elbow is on the left arm and one elbow is on the right arm. They are the same number. Two elbows help me bend my arms.
I saw three electric eels in the big tank. Two eels are long and one eel is short. Two is more than one. They swim slowly in the dark water.
I see two electric guitars in the music room. One guitar is red and one guitar is blue. They have the same number of strings. Six strings in total.
There are four electric lights in the room. Two lights are on and two lights are off. The same number are on and off.
I have two electric motors in my toy box. One motor spins fast and the other motor spins slow. Two is more than one. They can make little fans go round and round.
I saw four electric rays in the big tank. Two rays have long tails. Two rays have flat bodies. Four is more than two. They swim very slowly.
We have two electrical generators in the shed. One generator is big and one is small. The big one can power more lights than the small one. Two generators are more than one.
We made two electromagnets in class. One electromagnet picked up three paper clips. The other picked up five paper clips. Five is more than three. In total, they picked up eight paper clips.
An atom has many tiny electrons. Two electrons are near the center. Three electrons are far away. Three is more than two. In total, five electrons spin around the atom.
I have three electronics on my desk. One is a small clock and two are little lights. Two is more than one. Altogether, they help me see the time.
There are four elements in a set. Two elements are red and two are blue. The red group has the same number as the blue group. In total, there are four elements.
I saw three elephants at the zoo. Two elephants were eating hay. One elephant was splashing in the water. Two is more than one. Altogether, three elephants were having fun.
There are two elevators in the big building. One elevator is red and one is blue. They have the same number of buttons. Two is more than one.
I see three elm trees in the park. Two elm trees are tall and one is short. Two is more than one. In total, there are three elm trees near the bench.
I got three emails today. Two emails were from my friend. One email was from my teacher. Two is more than one. In total, I have three emails to read.
A hen has ten eggs in her nest. Three eggs have tiny embryos inside. Seven eggs have no embryos yet. Three is fewer than seven. In total, ten eggs are in the nest.
I have three emeralds in my hand. Two emeralds are green and one is dark green. Three is more than two. They shine in the light.
The emergency department has five doctors. Two doctors help a child with a cut. Three doctors help an old man. Two is fewer than three. In total, five doctors work there.
I saw the Empire State Building from far away. Two tall buildings stand near it. One building is shorter than the Empire State Building. The Empire State Building has more than one hundred floors. In total, there are three buildings in the picture.
I saw six emus at the zoo. Two emus were eating leaves. Four emus were walking. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six big birds.
I have two encyclopedias on my shelf. One is red and one is blue. Two is more than one.
We saw three endangered species at the zoo. Two were pandas and one was a tiger. Two is more than one. They need our help to stay safe.
The big truck has one engine. The small car also has one engine. They have the same number of engines. Two engines in total make the vehicles go.
There are three engineers in the room. Two engineers wear hard hats. One engineer has a blue shirt. Two is more than one. In total, there are three engineers.
I have two toy flags for England. My friend has three toy flags for England. Three is more than two. In total, we have five flags.
I see two English channels on the TV. One channel shows cartoons and the other shows songs. Two is more than one.
I have three envelopes on my desk. Two envelopes are white and one is brown. Two is more than one. In total, I have three envelopes to mail.
I have two erasers on my desk. My friend has three erasers. Three is more than two. In total, we have five erasers.
There are five dwarf planets in our solar system. Eris is one of them. Three dwarf planets are smaller than Eris. Two dwarf planets are larger than Eris. Five is more than two.
I see three eucalyptus trees in the park. Two trees are tall and one tree is short. Two is more than one. In total, there are three eucalyptus trees.
A pond has many eukaryotes. Five tiny eukaryotes swim in the water. Two are green and three are clear. Two is fewer than three. In total, five eukaryotes live in the pond.
I saw two eurasian eagle-owls in the big tree. One owl had big yellow eyes. The other owl had the same number of feathers on each wing. Two is more than one.
I saw two eurasian magpies in the tree. One magpie has a long tail. Two is more than one.
I have three euros in my pocket. My friend has five euros. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight euros.
Jupiter has four big moons. One moon is called Europa. Europa is a small moon. It is smaller than Earth's moon. Two moons orbit Jupiter.
I saw two european badgers in the woods. One badger was digging a hole. The other badger was eating berries. Two is more than one. They both ran away when I came near.
I see six european honey bees on the yellow flower. Three bees fly away. Now three bees are left. Three is fewer than six.
I saw four european robins in the garden. Two robins were on the grass and two robins were on the fence. The two groups have the same number. Four is more than two.
I have three examples in my bag. Two examples are easy and one is hard. Two is more than one. In total, I have three examples.
The mayor has three executives who help her. Two executives write reports and one executive plans meetings. Two is more than one. Altogether, they work in a big office.
Five explorers walk through the jungle. Two explorers have big hats. Three explorers have small packs. Two is fewer than three. Altogether, they look for new paths.
My extended family has ten people in total. Four are grandparents and six are aunts and uncles. Six is more than four. They all come to our house for dinner.
I have three extra crayons in my box. My friend has two extra crayons. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five extra crayons.
There are five extrasolar planets far away in space. Two planets are big and three planets are small. Three is more than two. In total, they are five planets that orbit other stars.
A pond has many tiny extremophiles. I see three extremophiles near the hot rock. Two extremophiles swim away. Three is more than two.
I have two eyes. My friend has two eyes too. We have the same number of eyes. In total, we have four eyes.
The doctor checked my eyes with a big light. I looked at two pictures and then three more. Two is fewer than three. In total, I saw five pictures.
I have two pairs of eyeglasses. One pair is blue and one pair is red. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two pairs.
I have ten eyelashes on my top lid. My friend has eight eyelashes on her top lid. Ten is more than eight. In total, we have eighteen eyelashes on our top lids.
I read two fables with my teacher. One fable was about a clever fox. Another fable was about a slow turtle. Two is more than one. Altogether, I learned two lessons from the stories.
I have three pieces of fabric. One piece is red and two pieces are blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three pieces of fabric.
I have one face with two eyes. My nose is in the middle. I have one mouth below my nose. Two eyes are more than one mouth.
There are three factories by the river. Two factories make toys and one factory makes boxes. Two is more than one. In total, three factories stand near the water.
I saw six fairies in the garden. Three fairies had pink wings and three fairies had blue wings. The two groups have the same number. Six is more than three.
I have two fairy tale books on my shelf. My friend has three fairy tale books. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five fairy tale books.
I see two falcons in the tall tree. One falcon has brown wings. The other falcon has gray wings. Two is more than one. They fly fast together.
My family has four people. Mom, Dad, my sister, and me. Two are grown-ups and two are kids. The number of grown-ups is the same as the number of kids. Altogether, we are a family of four.
My family has four people. Mom, Dad, my sister, and me. Two are grown-ups and two are kids. The number of grown-ups is the same as the number of kids. In total, we have four people in our family.
I see four fans in the big room. Two fans are on the ceiling and two fans are on the table. The ceiling fans and table fans have the same number. Four is more than two.
There are four fans at the concert. Two fans wear red shirts and two fans wear blue shirts. Two is the same as two. Altogether, four fans clap for the singer.
Five kids in my class love the same fandom. Two kids have shirts with the fandom logo. Three kids have stickers on their lunchboxes. Five is more than three.
The farm has ten animals in total. There are six cows and four pigs. Six is more than four. The cows and pigs live in the barn together.
There are six farmers in the big field. Four farmers have hats, and two farmers do not. Four is more than two. Altogether, six farmers work under the sun.
I ate three fast food meals this week. My friend ate five fast food meals. Five is more than three. In total, we ate eight fast food meals.
I have four fasteners on my jacket. Two fasteners are silver and two are black. The silver ones are more than the black ones? No, they are the same number. In total, I have four fasteners.
I have two pieces of fat on my plate. My friend has three pieces of fat. Three is more than two. In total, we have five pieces of fat.
I have one father and one mother. My father has two hands to hold me. One is more than two? No, one is fewer than two. In total, my family has three people.
A bird has many feathers. I found three feathers on the ground. Two feathers are blue and one is white. Three is more than two. Altogether, I have three feathers.
I have two feet. Each foot has five toes. Ten toes in total. Five is more than two.
I have two pieces of felt in my hand. One is red and one is blue. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
There are five females in my family. Three females are my sisters and two females are my mom and grandma. Three is more than two. Altogether, there are five females.
There are eight fence posts in a row. Four posts are tall and four posts are short. The tall posts have the same number as the short posts. In total, there are eight posts holding the fence.
I have three fennel plants in my garden. Two fennel plants are tall and one is short. Two is more than one.
I see four ferns in the garden. Two ferns are tall and two ferns are short. The tall ones are more than the short ones. In total, there are four ferns.
I see two ferries in the big blue water. One ferry is white and one ferry is red. They have the same number of windows. Two is more than one.
We had three games at the school festival. Two games had prizes and one game had stickers. Two is more than one. In total, we played all three games.
I have three fibres on my desk. Two fibres are long and one fibre is short. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three fibres.
I have three fiction books on my shelf. Two books are about dragons and one book is about a magic tree. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three books to read.
There are three cows in the green field. Two cows are eating grass. One cow is resting under a tree. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three cows in the field.
I have three figs in my bowl. My friend has two figs. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five figs.
I see two fighter aircraft in the sky. One is big and one is small. The big one has more wings than the small one. Two is more than one.
I see three figures in the park. Two figures are tall and one figure is short. Two is more than one. In total, there are three figures playing.
I have two films in my camera. One film is for taking pictures of my dog. The other film is for taking pictures of my family. Two is more than one.
A fish has two fins on its sides. One fin is on top and one fin is on the bottom. Two is more than one. In total, the fish has four fins to help it swim.
I see four finches on the bird feeder. Two finches are yellow and two are brown. The yellow ones have the same number as the brown ones. Four is more than two.
A child has ten fingers in total. Five fingers are on the left hand and five fingers are on the right hand. The two hands have the same number of fingers. Five is fewer than ten. Together, they can hold a small toy.
I have ten fingerprints on my hands. Five fingerprints are on my left hand and five are on my right hand. The two hands have the same number of fingerprints. Ten is more than five.
There are three fir trees in the yard. Two fir trees are tall, and one fir tree is small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three fir trees.
We saw three fires at the camp. Two fires were big and one fire was small. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three fires.
I saw six fire ants on the sidewalk. Three fire ants were carrying a crumb. Two fire ants were walking in a line. Three is more than two. In total, six fire ants were busy working.
The police officer has two firearms in the safe. One is a long rifle and one is a short pistol. Two is more than one. In total, there are two firearms locked away.
There are four firefighters at the station. Two firefighters drive the big red truck. Two firefighters stay inside. Two is the same as two. In total, four firefighters are ready to help.
I saw six fireflies in the dark yard. Four fireflies had bright lights. Two fireflies had dim lights. Four is more than two. In total, six fireflies blinked at me.
Our house has one fireplace in the living room. Two logs sit inside the fireplace. One log is more than zero logs. The fireplace keeps us warm.
I saw six fireworks in the sky last night. Three fireworks were red and three were blue. The red ones and blue ones have the same number. Two more fireworks went up after that, so there were eight in total.
We saw six fireworks in the sky. Three fireworks were red and three were blue. The red ones are the same number as the blue ones. In total, six fireworks lit up the night.
There are six fish in the big tank. Two fish are orange and four fish are blue. Four is more than two. In total, six fish swim around together.
Mom cooked six fish for dinner. I ate two fish and my dad ate three fish. Two is fewer than three. One fish is still on the plate.
I have two fists. Each fist has five fingers. Two fists have ten fingers in total. Five is more than two.
I have five fingers on one hand. My friend has five fingers too. We have the same number of fingers. Altogether, we have ten fingers.
I see two fixed-wing aircraft in the sky. One is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. They fly very high.
I see three flags on the tall pole. Two flags are red and one flag is blue. Two is more than one. In total, there are three flags waving in the wind.
I see two small flames on the candles. One flame is tall and one flame is short. The tall flame is more than the short one. Altogether, there are two flames.
I saw four flamingos at the pond. Two flamingos stood on one leg. Two more flamingos flew down. Now there are four flamingos in total. Four is more than two.
I saw six flares in the night sky. Three flares were red and three flares were blue. The red and blue flares have the same number. Six is more than three.
I see three flatfish in the tank. Two flatfish are brown and one is gray. Two is more than one. They swim near the sand.
I found three flatworms under a rock. Two flatworms are long and one is short. Two is more than one. They all wiggle in the mud.
I have three flax plants in my garden. Two flax plants have blue flowers. One flax plant has no flowers yet. Two is more than one.
I found three fleas on my dog. Two fleas jumped off. One flea stayed. Two is more than one.
A fleet has five ships. Three ships are big and two ships are small. Three is more than two. In total, the fleet has five ships.
I saw six flights of stairs today. Three flights are short and three flights are long. They have the same number of steps.
There are four floors in our school building. The first floor has two big doors. The second floor has the same number of doors. Four is more than two.
I have six flowers in my garden. Four flowers are red and two flowers are yellow. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six pretty flowers.
I have three flowering plants in my room. Two have pink flowers and one has white flowers. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three pretty plants.
I have two flutes. One flute is long and one flute is short. The long flute is more than the short one. In total, I have two flutes to play.
I see six flies buzzing near the fruit. Two flies land on the apple and four flies stay near the orange. Four is more than two. In total, there are six flies in the kitchen.
I have two flying discs in my bag. My friend has three flying discs. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five flying discs.
I see four flying fish jump out of the water. Two fish have big fins and two fish have small fins. The same number of fish have big and small fins. Four is more than two.
I have three folders on my desk. One folder is red and two folders are blue. Two is more than one. In total, I have three folders.
The book has three fonts on its cover. One font is big and two fonts are small. Two is more than one.
I have three pieces of food on my plate. One is a cracker and two are grapes. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three pieces of food to eat.
I see four foods on my plate. Two foods are fruits and two foods are veggies. Fruits and veggies have the same number. Altogether, I have four foods to eat.
I have two feet. Each foot has five toes. Two feet have ten toes in total. Five is more than two.
A person has two feet. One foot has five toes. The other foot has five toes too. Both feet have the same number of toes. In total, there are ten toes on two feet.
Tom has two footballs in his bag. He gives one football to his friend. Now Tom has one football left. One is fewer than two.
I see six footprints in the mud. Three footprints are big and three are small. The big ones are more than the small ones? No, they are the same number. In total, there are six footprints.
There are five tall trees in the forest. Three trees have green leaves and two trees have yellow leaves. Three is more than two. In total, there are five trees in the forest.
I have four forks in the drawer. Two forks are big and two forks are small. The big forks and small forks have the same number. In total, I have four forks.
I built two forts with big pillows. One fort is for me and one fort is for my bear. They have the same number of pillows. Two forts are more than one fort.
I found three fossils at the park. Two fossils are small shells and one fossil is a big leaf. Two is more than one. In total, I have three fossils in my pocket.
There are three fountains in the park. Two fountains have water, and one fountain is dry. Two is more than one. In total, there are three fountains to see.
I saw six fowl in the yard. Four fowl are white and two are brown. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six fowl.
I saw three foxes in the woods. Two foxes were playing near a big tree. One fox was sleeping. Two is more than one. In total, there were three foxes.
I see four picture frames on the wall. Two frames are big and two frames are small. The big frames have the same number as the small frames. In total, there are four frames holding happy photos.
I have two frankenstein toys on my bed. One is green and one is blue. Two is more than one.
Mom has two freezers in the garage. One freezer holds ice cream and the other holds frozen peas. Two is more than one. Altogether, they keep our food cold.
I see two big freighters in the harbor. One freighter is red and one is blue. Two is more than one. They carry many boxes.
I have two pieces of french food on my plate. One is a small pastry and one is a soft cheese. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two pieces of french food to eat.
My toy car has two frequencies for sound. One frequency makes a beep and the other frequency makes a roar. Two is more than one.
Freyja has two cats that pull her chariot. She has one more cat than most people. In total, she has two special cats.
I have one fridge in my kitchen. It holds two apples and three cups. Two is fewer than three.
I have three friends at school. Two friends like to play with blocks. One friend likes to draw pictures. Three is more than one. Altogether, we have fun together.
I see three Friesian horses in the field. Two horses are black and one horse is black too. They all have the same number of legs, which is four. Three is more than two.
I saw two frigatebirds in the sky. One frigatebird has a red pouch on its neck. The other frigatebird has a white belly. Two is more than one. They flew over the ocean together.
There are six frogs by the pond. Four frogs are green and two frogs are brown. Four is more than two. In total, there are six frogs hopping near the water.
I saw two frost patches on the window. One frost patch is big and one is small. The big patch is more than the small patch. They melt in the sun.
I have six fruits in my bowl. Three are apples and three are oranges. The apples and oranges have the same number. In total, I have six fruits.
Mom made two jars of fruit preserves. We have three jars in the pantry. Three is more than two.
I see three fungi on the old log. Two fungi are brown and one is white. Two is more than one. They grow together in the damp shade.
A cat has fur all over its body. I see two cats with soft fur. One cat has more fur than the other. In total, they have a lot of fur.
I see four pieces of furniture in the room. Two chairs are by the table. Two chairs are by the window. They have the same number. In total, there are four pieces of furniture.
I have two fuses in my hand. One fuse is long and one fuse is short. The long fuse is more than the short fuse. In total, I have two fuses.
I saw three galagos in the tree at night. Two galagos had big eyes and one had a fluffy tail. Two is more than one. They jumped from branch to branch.
I see two galaxies in the big sky. One galaxy has many stars. The other galaxy has fewer stars than the first. Two is more than one.
The big ship has two galleys. One galley is for cooking food. The other galley is for washing dishes. Two is more than one. In total, there are two galleys on the ship.
A big jug holds one gallon of milk. Two small bottles hold less than one gallon in total. One gallon is more than two small bottles.
There are five Galapagos Islands that are big. Two islands have many birds. Three islands have fewer birds than the two. In total, five islands are home to many animals.
We have four games in the toy box. Two games are board games and two games are card games. They have the same number. In total, we have four games to play.
We watched two game shows on TV. One game show had three players and the other had four players. Four is more than three. In total, there were seven players on the two shows.
I see two Ganesha statues on the shelf. One Ganesha has a broken trunk. The other Ganesha has four arms. Two is more than one.
There are five boats on the Ganges river. Three boats are big and two boats are small. Three is more than two. In total, five boats float on the water.
Jupiter has many moons. Ganymede is one of them. Two moons are bigger than Earth's moon. Ganymede is the largest. Three moons orbit close to Jupiter. Ganymede is farther than those three.
Our garage has two cars inside. One car is red and one car is blue. Two is more than one. The garage door is big.
My garden has six flowers. Three flowers are red and three flowers are yellow. They have the same number. Two bees visit the red flowers. Six is more than two.
I have three gardenia plants in my garden. Two gardenia plants have white flowers. One gardenia plant has no flowers yet. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three gardenia plants.
I have three garlic cloves on the plate. Mom has two garlic cloves. Three is more than two. In total, we have five garlic cloves.
I saw four garter snakes in the garden. Two snakes were long and two were short. Two is the same as two. In total, there were four snakes slithering away.
There are two gas stations on our street. One gas station has three pumps. The other gas station has five pumps. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight pumps at the two gas stations.
There are two gates at the park. One gate is big and one gate is small. The big gate is more than the small gate. In total, there are two gates to go through.
I saw four gaur at the zoo. Two gaur were eating grass. Two gaur were resting. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there were four big gaur.
I saw four gazelles in the field. Two gazelles were eating grass. Two gazelles were running fast. Four is more than two.
I have two gears on my desk. One gear is big and one gear is small. The big gear has more teeth than the small gear. Altogether, I have two gears to play with.
I saw four geckos on the wall. Two geckos are green and two are brown. They have the same number. Four is more than two.
I have two tubes of gel. One tube is blue and one tube is green. They have the same number of squirts left.
A cell has many genes inside it. Two genes work together to make one trait. Three genes are more than two genes. In total, a cell has thousands of genes.
I saw two genies in my dream last night. One genie was blue and one genie was green. Two is more than one. They both smiled at me.
We have five maps in class. Two maps show land and three maps show water. Three is more than two. In total, we have five maps to learn geography.
I saw three geometer moths on the wall. Two moths have spots on their wings. One moth has no spots. Two is more than one. In total, there are three moths.
I have three shapes on my desk. Two shapes are squares and one shape is a circle. Two is more than one. In total, I have three shapes to play with.
George has two red cars and three blue cars. He has more blue cars than red cars. In total, George has five cars.
I see five germs on my hand after playing outside. Three germs are round and two germs are long. Three is more than two. In total, there are five germs on my hand.
I saw two geysers in the park. One geyser shot water high up. The other geyser was smaller. Two is more than one. Altogether, they made a big splash.
I saw three ghosts in the old house. Two ghosts were small and one ghost was big. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three ghosts floating in the dark room.
I saw two giants in the storybook. One giant had a big hat. The other giant had a small hat. Two is more than one.
I saw three giant pandas at the zoo. Two pandas were eating bamboo. One panda was sleeping. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three pandas.
There are eight giant planets in our solar system. Four giant planets are big and four are small. Four is the same as four. In total, eight giant planets orbit the sun.
I see two giant stars in the dark sky. One giant star is very big. The other giant star is smaller. One is more than the other in size.
I saw two giant tortoises at the zoo. One tortoise was eating leaves. The other tortoise was sleeping. Two is more than one. They move very slowly.
I saw four gibbons in the tall tree. Two gibbons swung on one branch. Two gibbons sat on another branch. The two groups have the same number. Four is more than two.
I have three gifts in my room. Two gifts are for my mom and one gift is for my dad. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three gifts to give.
I saw two gila monsters at the zoo. One gila monster was sleeping on a rock. The other gila monster was walking slowly. Two is more than one. They both had orange and black scales.
A fish has four gills on each side. Two gills are on the left and two are on the right. The left side has the same number as the right side. In total, a fish has eight gills.
I have two ginger plants in my garden. One ginger plant has three green leaves. The other ginger plant has five green leaves. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight leaves on the two ginger plants.
I see six ginkgo trees in the park. Three trees have yellow leaves and three trees have green leaves. They have the same number of leaves on each branch. In total, there are six ginkgo trees near the bench.
I see three ginseng plants in the garden. Two plants have red berries. One plant has no berries. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three ginseng plants.
I see four giraffes at the zoo. Two giraffes are eating leaves from a tall tree. Two giraffes are standing still. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four giraffes with long necks.
There are three girls playing in the park. Two girls have red hats. One girl has a blue hat. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three girls.
I have two gita books on my shelf. My friend has three gita books. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five gita books.
There are three big pyramids in Giza. Two pyramids are close together, and one is a little farther away. Two is more than one. In total, there are three pyramids at Giza.
I saw two big glaciers from the boat. One glacier was taller than the other. They looked like giant ice mountains. The two glaciers had the same number of white peaks.
There are three gladiators in the arena. Two gladiators have swords. One gladiator has a net. Two is more than one. Altogether, three gladiators stand ready.
I have five gladiolus flowers in my garden. Two are pink and three are purple. Three is more than two. They stand tall in the sun.
A person has many glands in their body. Two glands sit under the jaw and make spit. Three glands are near the eyes. Two is fewer than three.
I have two glasses on the table. One glass has water and one glass has milk. They hold the same amount. Two is more than one.
I have two pairs of glasses. One pair is for reading, and one pair is for the sun. I have the same number of glasses for each thing.
I saw four gliders in the sky. Two gliders are white and two gliders are blue. The white ones are fewer than the blue ones. Altogether, there are four gliders flying high.
I have two globes in my room. One globe is big and one globe is small. The big globe is more than the small globe. They both show the whole world.
I have two gloves on my hands. One glove is blue and one glove is red. They are not the same color. Two is more than one.
I have two glue sticks in my desk. One glue stick is blue and one glue stick is green. They are the same number. Two is more than one.
The team scored two goals in the first game. They scored three goals in the second game. Three is more than two. In total, they scored five goals.
I see four goats in the green field. Two goats are eating grass. Two goats are sleeping. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there are four goats.
There are three gods in the story. Two gods are kind and one god is not. Two is more than one. In total, they are three gods.
The Godavari River is long. Two boats float on the river. Three birds sit near the water. Two is fewer than three.
I saw two golden eagles in the sky. One eagle flew high above the trees. The other eagle sat on a big rock. Two is more than one. They looked very strong.
There are two golden gate bridges in my toy set. One bridge is big and one bridge is small. The big bridge is more than the small one. In total, I have two bridges to play with.
I have three goldfish in my tank. Two goldfish are orange and one is white. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three goldfish swimming around.
I see six geese by the pond. Four geese are swimming and two geese are on the grass. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six geese.
I saw six gorillas at the zoo. Two gorillas were eating leaves. Four gorillas were resting in the shade. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six gorillas.
There are three gothic cathedrals in the city. Two cathedrals have tall spires. One cathedral has a big rose window. Two is more than one. In total, three cathedrals stand in the city.
Mom has three gowns in her closet. One gown is blue and two gowns are red. Two is more than one. In total, she has three gowns to wear.
I saw two graffiti drawings on the wall. One is a big blue bird. The other is a red flower. Two is more than one.
I have seven grains of rice on my plate. Three grains are white and four grains are brown. Four is more than three. Altogether, I have seven grains.
I have three grams of gold. My friend has five grams of gold. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight grams of gold.
Gran has two grandchildren. One is a boy and one is a girl. They both love Gran very much. Two is more than one.
A granary has ten bags of grain inside. Two bags are full and eight bags are empty. Two is fewer than ten. The granary holds grain for the farm animals.
There are two big rocks at the Grand Canyon. One rock is tall and one rock is wide. They are not the same size. The tall rock is more than the wide rock.
My grandfather has two grandchildren. He tells us three stories every night. Two is fewer than three. In total, he tells five stories each week.
I have two grandmas. One grandma lives in a big house. The other grandma lives far away. Two is more than one. I love both grandmas very much.
I have two grandmothers. One grandmother lives in a big house. The other grandmother lives far away. Two is more than one. I love both of them.
I have two grandpas. One grandpa has gray hair. The other grandpa has no hair. Two is more than one. They both give me big hugs.
I have two grandparents. One grandparent lives in a big house. The other grandparent lives nearby. Two is more than one. Altogether, I love both of them.
I have seven grapes in my bowl. I ate three grapes and now I have four grapes left. Four is more than three. In total, I started with seven grapes.
I have three grapefruits in my bowl. My friend has two grapefruits. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five grapefruits.
I have two graphs on my paper. One graph has three bars and the other graph has five bars. Five is more than three. Altogether, there are eight bars on the two graphs.
I saw six grasshoppers in the tall grass. Three grasshoppers jumped away from me. Three grasshoppers stayed still. Three is the same as three. In total, there were six grasshoppers in the green field.
I saw four grazers in the field. Two grazers were eating grass and two grazers were resting. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there are four grazers.
The Great Pyramid of Giza has four sides. Three sides face the sun. One side faces the moon. Four is more than one.
We saw four deer in Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Two deer were eating grass near the trail. Two deer were resting under a big tree. The two groups had the same number of deer. In total, we saw four deer.
The Great Sphinx has one big head and one long body. Two parts make the whole statue. The head is smaller than the body.
I saw two great white sharks at the aquarium. One shark was big and one shark was small. The big shark is more than the small shark. In total, there are two sharks swimming in the tank.
I see six green algae in the pond. Two algae are big and four algae are small. Four is more than two. They float on the water together.
I have six green beans on my plate. My friend has four green beans. Six is more than four. Altogether, we have ten green beans.
I saw two green iguanas on a big rock. One iguana was eating a leaf. The other iguana was sleeping. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are two green iguanas.
Greenland is a big island. Two people live in a small house there. Three people live in another house. Two is fewer than three. In total, five people live near the ice.
There are three islands in Grenada. Two islands have people living on them. One island has fewer people than the other. In total, three islands make up the country.
I see four grids on the paper. Two grids are big and two grids are small. The big grids have more squares than the small ones. In total, there are four grids.
Dad has two grills in the backyard. One grill is big and one grill is small. The big grill can cook more food than the small grill. In total, there are two grills for cooking.
Dad has two grills in the backyard. One grill is big and one grill is small. The big grill can cook more food than the small one. In total, there are two grills for our party.
I saw six ground squirrels in the park. Two squirrels were eating nuts. Four squirrels were playing. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six ground squirrels.
There are six children in the group. Three children have red shirts and three have blue shirts. The two colors have the same number. Six is more than three.
I saw six groupers in the big tank. Two groupers are gray and four groupers are brown. Four is more than two. They swim together in the water.
I saw six grouse in the woods. Two grouse were eating seeds. Four grouse were hiding under a bush. Four is more than two. In total, I saw six grouse.
I saw four guanacos in the field. Two guanacos were eating grass. Two guanacos were resting. Two is the same as two. In total, there were four guanacos.
There are three guards at the gate. Two guards stand by the door. One guard sits in a chair. Two is more than one. In total, there are three guards watching.
I have three guavas in my lunch box. My friend has two guavas. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five guavas.
We have six guests at our house. Three guests are sitting on the big sofa. Two guests are in the kitchen. Three is more than two. In total, there are six guests here.
I have two guide books for the park. My friend has three guide books. Three is more than two. In total, we have five guide books.
I have two guinea pigs at home. One guinea pig is brown and one is white. They have the same number of ears, which is two. Two is more than one.
I see three guitars in the music room. Two guitars are big and one guitar is small. Two is more than one. They all have strings that make sounds.
I saw six gulls on the beach. Two gulls were eating bread. Four gulls were flying high. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six gulls by the water.
I see two toy guns on the floor. One gun is red and one gun is blue. Two is more than one. They are both for playing.
I see two gun dogs in the field. One dog has a yellow coat and the other has a brown coat. Two is more than one. They sit together and wait for a duck.
I have three guppies in my fish tank. Two guppies are orange and one is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, they swim around the green plants.
A person has one gut inside their body. Two guts are not the same as one gut. One gut is fewer than two.
I saw four guys playing in the park. Two guys had red balls and two guys had blue balls. The same number of guys had red and blue balls. In total, four guys were having fun.
There are four kids in the gym. Two kids are jumping and two kids are running. The same number are jumping and running.
I heard two big ha sounds from the clown. One ha was loud and one ha was soft. Two is more than one.
I saw six haddock in the big tank. Two haddock are small and four haddock are big. Four is more than two. In total, there are six haddock swimming together.
I see two hagfish in the tank. One hagfish is long and pink. The other hagfish is short and gray. Two is more than one. They swim together in the water.
I have ten hairs on my arm. Five hairs are long and five hairs are short. They have the same number. Two hairs are more than one hair.
I have two hairbrushes. One is red and one is blue. I have the same number of hairbrushes as my sister.
I got two haircuts this year. One haircut was very short. The other haircut was a little longer. Two is more than one.
I see three girls with braids and two girls with ponytails. Five is more than two. In total, there are five girls with different hairstyles.
I saw three halibut in the big tank at the fish store. Two halibut are flat and brown. One halibut is bigger than the other two. Three is more than one.
The school has one big hall. Two doors lead into the hall. One door is more than two doors? No, two is more than one. In total, the hall has two doors.
I saw Halley's comet one time in the sky. My grandpa saw it two times in his life. One is fewer than two.
Two angels have halos above their heads. One halo is bright gold and one halo is soft silver. The two halos are the same size. One is fewer than two.
Mom cut two slices of ham for my lunch. I ate one slice and gave one slice to my dog. One is fewer than two. In total, we had two slices of ham.
I see two hamburgs on the big plate. One hamburg has cheese and one hamburg has no cheese. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I have two hamburgers on my plate. My friend has three hamburgers. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five hamburgers.
Dad has two hammers in the shed. One hammer is big and one hammer is small. The big hammer is heavier than the small one. Two is more than one.
I saw four hammerhead sharks at the aquarium. Two sharks swam near the glass. Two sharks rested on the sand. Two is the same as two. In total, there were four sharks.
I have two hamsters at home. One hamster is brown and white. The other hamster is gray. Two is more than one. They both live in a big cage.
I have two hands. Each hand has five fingers. Two hands have ten fingers in total. Five is more than two.
I have three handbags in my closet. One handbag is red and two handbags are blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three handbags to carry my things.
We have two handballs in the gym. One handball is red and one handball is blue. Two is more than one. We play with them at recess.
We made three handicrafts in class. Two are paper boats and one is a clay fish. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have three handicrafts to take home.
The drawer has four handles. Two handles are on the top and two handles are on the bottom. They are the same number. In total, there are four handles.
There are three boats in the harbor. Two boats are big and one boat is small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three boats at the dock.
I have three hard rocks in my pocket. Two hard rocks are smooth and one is rough. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three hard rocks.
I have two hard disks in my computer. One hard disk holds many games. The other hard disk holds pictures. Two is more than one. Altogether, they store lots of fun things.
I saw three hares in the field. Two hares were eating grass. One hare was hopping away. Two is more than one. In total, there were three hares.
I have two harmonicas. One is red and one is blue. Two is more than one. I can play them both.
I saw two harps in the music room. One harp is tall and one harp is small. They have the same number of strings. Two is more than one.
I have one harrow in the shed. My friend has two harrows. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have three harrows.
I have three hats on my shelf. Two hats are blue and one hat is red. Two is more than one. In total, I have three hats.
I have two small statues of Hathor on my shelf. One statue has cow horns and the other has a sun disk. Two is more than one. Altogether, they remind me of the sky.
I saw four hawks in the sky. Two hawks flew high above the trees. Two hawks sat on a big branch. Two is the same as two. In total, four hawks were there.
The farmer has ten bales of hay in the barn. Three bales are for the horses and seven bales are for the cows. Seven is more than three. In total, there are ten bales of hay.
I have six hazelnuts in my hand. Two hazelnuts are big and four are small. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six hazelnuts to eat.
I have one head on my body. My head has two eyes and one nose. Two is more than one. My head also has two ears and one mouth. Two is the same as two.
A country has one head of state. Two heads of state met for a talk. One is fewer than two.
I have one heart in my chest. My dog has one heart too. We have the same number of hearts. Two hearts beat together.
We have two heaters in our classroom. One heater is big and one heater is small. The big heater is more than the small one. They keep us warm in winter.
I see four hedgehogs in the garden. Two hedgehogs are small and two are big. The small ones have fewer spines than the big ones. Altogether, there are four hedgehogs.
I see two helicopters in the sky. One helicopter is big and one is small. The big one has more blades than the small one. Two is more than one.
I see four helmets on the shelf. Two helmets are red and two helmets are blue. The red ones are the same number as the blue ones. In total, there are four helmets.
There are six helpers in the classroom. Two helpers pass out papers and four helpers clean the tables. Four is more than two. Altogether, six helpers make the room tidy.
I see six hens in the yard. Three hens are brown and three hens are white. They have the same number. Two hens are pecking at the ground.
I have two henna plants in small pots. One plant has three leaves and the other has five leaves. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight leaves on the two plants.
I have three herbs in my garden. One herb is mint and two herbs are basil. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three herbs to smell.
A rabbit is an herbivore. I saw three rabbits eating grass in the garden. Two more rabbits came to join them. Five rabbits in total is more than three.
A herd has ten cows in the field. Five cows eat grass and five cows drink water. The two groups have the same number. Ten is more than five.
There are three heroes in the story. One hero has a red cape. Two heroes have blue capes. Two is more than one. Altogether, they save the day.
I saw four herons by the pond. Two herons stood on one leg. Two herons flew away. Two is fewer than four.
Five herring swim in the blue sea. Two herring are small and three herring are big. Three is more than two. Altogether, they make a happy fish group.
I see three hickory trees in the yard. Two trees have nuts on the ground. One tree has fewer nuts than the other two. In total, there are three hickory trees.
I saw six hieroglyphs on the wall. Three hieroglyphs look like a bird. Two hieroglyphs look like an eye. Three is more than two. In total, there are six hieroglyphs.
I see four high-rise buildings outside my window. Two buildings are tall and two are short. The tall ones have more floors than the short ones. In total, there are four buildings in a row.
There are two high-speed trains at the station. One train is long and white. The other train is blue and fast. Two is more than one. Altogether, they can take many people far away.
There are four cars on the highway. Two cars are red and two cars are blue. The same number of red and blue cars are on the road. In total, four cars drive fast.
There are three hills in the park. Two hills are small and one hill is big. Two is more than one. In total, there are three hills to climb.
There are five tall mountains in the Himalayas. Three mountains have snow on top. Two mountains are rocky. Three is more than two. In total, five mountains stand very high.
I know two friends who speak Hindi. Three more friends want to learn it. Two is fewer than three.
I see two hinges on the wooden door. One hinge is at the top and one hinge is at the bottom. They are the same number. Two hinges hold the door in place.
A person has two hips, one on each side. Two hips help us walk and sit. One hip is the same as the other hip. In total, we have two hips.
I saw three hippopotamuses in the zoo. Two were in the water and one was on the land. Two is more than one. They are big and gray.
I heard two hisses from the dark corner. Three hisses came next, and three is more than two. In total, there were five hisses from the cat.
There are three hives in the garden. Two hives have bees buzzing around. One hive has fewer bees than the others. In total, three hives sit under the big tree.
There are six Hmong people in the room. Two people wear green shirts and four people wear blue shirts. Four is more than two. Altogether, they smile and talk.
Dad has two hoes in the shed. One hoe is big and one hoe is small. The big hoe is more than the small hoe. They are both for digging in the garden.
I see three holes in the big tree. Two holes are small and one hole is big. Two is more than one. In total, there are three holes in the tree.
I see two Holstein Friesian cows in the green field. One cow has black spots and the other has white spots. Two is more than one. They eat grass together.
I have one home where I live with my family. My friend has two homes, one for summer and one for winter. Two is more than one. In total, we have three homes.
We have four home appliances in the kitchen. The fridge and the oven are two big ones. The toaster and the mixer are two small ones. Two is the same as two. In total, we have four home appliances.
Homer has two donuts in his hand. He eats one donut. Now he has one donut left. One is fewer than two.
I have three homework sheets to finish. My friend has two sheets. Three is more than two. Altogether we have five sheets.
I have three jars of honey in the kitchen. Two jars are full and one jar is almost empty. Two is more than one. In total, I have three jars of honey.
I saw three honey badgers at the zoo. Two honey badgers were digging in the dirt. One honey badger was sleeping. Two is more than one. In total, there were three honey badgers.
I saw six honeyeaters in the garden. Four honeyeaters were eating from yellow flowers. Two honeyeaters were sitting on a branch. Four is more than two. In total, six honeyeaters were there.
I saw two honeyguides in the tree. One honeyguide flew away. Now there is one left. One is fewer than two.
There are three children named Hong in my class. Two Hongs sit together at lunch. One Hong is more than two Hongs? No, three is more than two. Altogether, three Hongs play in the yard.
I have two hoods on my coat. One hood is big and one hood is small. The big hood is more than the small hood. Altogether, I have two hoods.
I see four hooks on the wall. Two hooks hold my blue coat. Two hooks hold my red hat. Two is the same as two. In total, four hooks are on the wall.
I saw two hoopoe birds in the garden. They have orange feathers and black stripes. One hoopoe flew to a tree. Two is more than one.
I see four horns on the big cow. Two horns are long and two horns are short. The long horns are more than the short ones. In total, the cow has four horns.
I see three horns on the shelf. Two horns are shiny and one horn is old. Two is more than one. In total, there are three horns.
I saw three hornbills in the big tree. Two hornbills have yellow beaks. One hornbill has a black beak. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three hornbills.
I saw four horned lizards on the hot sand. Two lizards had tiny horns on their heads. Two lizards were hiding under a rock. Four is more than two.
I saw three hornets near the tree. Two hornets flew away. One hornet stayed. Two is more than one. In total, there were three hornets.
There are six horses in the big field. Three horses are brown and three horses are white. The brown horses and white horses have the same number. Six is more than three.
I see two horse flies on the fence. One horse fly is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one in size. Altogether, there are two horse flies.
Mom has two horseradish plants in the garden. One plant is big and one plant is small. The big plant has more leaves than the small plant. In total, there are two plants.
I saw four horsetails by the pond. Two horsetails are tall and two are short. The tall ones are more than the short ones. In total, there are four horsetails.
I have two toy horus birds. My friend has three toy horus birds. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five toy horus birds.
Dad has two hoses in the garage. One hose is long and green. The other hose is short and blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, he has two hoses for the garden.
There are two hospitals in our town. One hospital has three big windows. The other hospital has five big windows. Five is more than three. In total, there are two hospitals.
There are six hosts at the party. Two hosts give out snacks and four hosts play games. Four is more than two. In total, six hosts help everyone have fun.
I see four hot air balloons in the sky. Two balloons are red and two are blue. The red ones have the same number as the blue ones. In total, there are four hot air balloons floating high.
There are seven hotels on the street. Three hotels are tall and four hotels are small. Four is more than three. In total, seven hotels have many rooms.
There are three houses on our street. Two houses are blue and one house is white. Two is more than one. In total, there are three houses.
I see three houseflies on the window. Two houseflies are near the corner. One housefly is by the light. Three is more than one. They all buzz around the room.
Our household has four people in total. Two are adults and two are children. The number of adults is the same as the number of children.
I saw two hovercrafts on the water. One hovercraft was big and one was small. The big one is more than the small one. They both float on air.
I heard two howls from the woods. Three howls came after that. Five howls in total is more than two.
There are two Hubble Space Telescopes in space. One is real and one is a toy. Two is more than one.
The ship has one big hull. Two small boats have one hull each. In total, there are three hulls on the water. Three is more than one.
I heard two hums from the big machine. One hum was loud and one hum was soft. The loud hum is more than the soft hum. In total, there are two hums in the room.
A human has two hands and ten fingers. Five fingers are on each hand. The two hands have the same number of fingers. Ten is more than five.
A human body has two arms and two legs. That is four limbs in total. Two is the same as two. The arms and legs have the same number.
People have two human eyes. One eye is on the left and one eye is on the right. They have the same number of eyes. Two is more than one.
There are three houses in the small village. Two houses have red roofs and one house has a blue roof. Two is more than one. In total, there are three houses in the settlement.
A human skeleton has two hundred six bones. The skull has twenty-two bones. The spine has thirty-three bones. Twenty-two is fewer than thirty-three. In total, the skeleton has many bones.
A child has twenty baby teeth. Four teeth fell out last month. Six teeth are wiggly now. Four is fewer than six. In total, ten teeth are still strong.
I see three hummingbirds at the red flower. Two hummingbirds fly away fast. One hummingbird stays to drink. Two is more than one. In total, three hummingbirds came to the flower.
I saw two humpback whales in the ocean. One whale splashed its tail. The other whale jumped high. Two is more than one. They were big and gray.
Two hunters walk into the deep woods. One hunter carries a big bag. The other hunter has fewer things. Two is more than one.
There are six hunter-gatherers in the forest. Two hunter-gatherers look for berries. Four hunter-gatherers look for fish. Four is more than two. Altogether, they find food for the group.
There are four hunting dogs in the field. Two dogs are sniffing the ground. Two dogs are sitting still. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there are four dogs.
My mom has one husband. He is my dad. I have two parents in total. One is more than zero.
I see three huts in the green field. Two huts are big and one hut is small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three huts.
I saw four hyaenas at the zoo. Two hyaenas were sleeping and two were walking. The same number were sleeping and walking. Four hyaenas in total.
We sang two hymns at school today. One hymn was about the sun and one hymn was about the rain. Two is more than one. Altogether, we sang two hymns in music class.
I saw four hyraxes on the big rock. Two hyraxes were eating leaves. Two hyraxes were sleeping. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there are four hyraxes.
I saw five ibises by the pond. Two ibises had white feathers and three had black feathers. Three is more than two. In total, five ibises stood in the shallow water.
I have two scoops of ice cream. My friend has three scoops. Three is more than two. In total, we have five scoops of ice cream.
I see six ice pellets on the cold ground. Three ice pellets are round and three are small. Three is the same as three. In total, six ice pellets sit on the white snow.
Two big ice sheets sit on the land. One ice sheet is larger than the other. They cover the ground with white snow.
I saw three icebergs floating in the cold sea. Two icebergs were big and white. One iceberg was small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three icebergs.
I have three small icons on my desk. Two icons are red and one icon is blue. Two is more than one. In total, there are three icons.
I see two igloos in the snow. One igloo is big and one igloo is small. The big igloo has more blocks than the small igloo. In total, there are two igloos.
I found four igneous rocks in the garden. Two rocks are black and two rocks are gray. The black rocks are the same number as the gray rocks. Four is more than two.
I saw three iguanodons at the park. Two iguanodons were eating leaves. One iguanodon was sleeping. Two is more than one. In total, there were three iguanodons.
I drew two illustrations for my story. One illustration shows a big tree. The other illustration shows a small bird. Two is more than one.
I have three images on my desk. Two images show a red flower and one image shows a blue bird. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three images to look at.
I have two image scanners on my desk. One scanner is big and one scanner is small. The big scanner can copy more than one picture at a time. In total, I have two scanners to use.
There are three imams at the mosque. Two imams lead the prayer and one imam teaches the children. Two is more than one. Altogether, they help the community.
A child has one immune system that fights germs. Two white blood cells help the immune system. One is fewer than two.
I saw two impact craters on the Moon. One crater is big and one crater is small. The big one is more than the small one. Altogether, there are two craters.
There are four impalas in the field. Two impalas are eating grass. Two impalas are drinking water. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there are four impalas.
I have two sticks of incense on the shelf. Three sticks are in the box. Three is more than two. In total, there are five sticks of incense.
A worm is two inches long. A bug is one inch long. Two is more than one. The worm is longer than the bug.
We have two inclined planes in the classroom. One is long and one is short. The long one is more than the short one. They help us move toys up and down.
There are seven children in India who play with a red ball. Three children kick the ball and four children catch it. Four is more than three. In total, seven children play together.
There are two Indus dolls in the toy box. One doll has a red dress and one doll has a blue dress. They are the same number of dolls.
The Indus River is very long. Five boats float on the Indus River. Two boats are big and three boats are small. Three is more than two. In total, five boats are on the river.
An industrial park has many big buildings. I saw four trucks and two buses there. Four is more than two. In total, six vehicles were at the park.
The mother held two infants in her arms. One infant was sleeping, and one infant was awake. Two is more than one. In total, she had two infants to care for.
There are six infantry soldiers in a line. Four soldiers have green helmets and two have brown helmets. Four is more than two. Altogether, they march together.
A child had three red spots on his arm. Two spots got bigger. One spot is fewer than two. In total, three spots are on his arm.
I have two inhalers in my bag. One inhaler is blue and one inhaler is green. Two is more than one. I use them when I need to breathe better.
Tom has two small cuts on his knee. He has one big bruise on his arm. Two is more than one. In total, he has three injuries.
I have two ink bottles on my desk. One bottle has blue ink and one bottle has black ink. They have the same number of drops. Two is more than one.
There are three inns on the old road. Two inns have red roofs and one inn has a blue roof. Two is more than one. In total, there are three inns for travelers to rest.
I see six insects in the garden. Four insects are ants and two insects are bees. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six insects crawling and flying.
There are three big buildings in our town. One building is a school and two buildings are hospitals. Three is more than one. The school has many children inside.
I have two instruments at home. One is a drum and one is a bell. Two is more than one. They make fun sounds when I play them.
The toy car has four interchangeable parts. Two parts are wheels and two parts are doors. The number of wheels is the same as the number of doors. In total, there are four parts that can be swapped.
The International Space Station has two big solar panels. Four astronauts live there. Two is fewer than four.
There are four Inuit people in the picture. Two Inuit are fishing by the ice hole. Two Inuit are building a snow house. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there are four Inuit.
My dad made one invention at work. He showed me two small parts of it. One is fewer than two.
There are three inventors in the lab. Two inventors are drawing new machines. One inventor is testing a small robot. Two is more than one. Altogether, they have three big ideas.
I see six invertebrates in the garden. Four are worms and two are snails. Four is more than two. They all wiggle and crawl on the dirt.
Jupiter has four big moons that we can see. One moon is called Io. Three other moons are bigger than Io. Four is more than one.
There are seven cities in Iraq that I know. Three cities are big and four cities are small. Four is more than three. In total, seven cities are in Iraq.
I have two toy sheep from Ireland. My friend has three toy sheep from Ireland. Three is more than two. In total, we have five toy sheep.
I have three iris flowers in my garden. Two are purple and one is yellow. Two is more than one. Altogether, they smell very sweet.
I have three iris plants in my garden. Two iris plants have purple flowers. One iris plant has yellow flowers. Two is more than one. In total, I have three iris plants.
An irregular galaxy has no clear shape. I saw two irregular galaxies in a picture book. They look like messy clouds of stars. Three irregular galaxies are fewer than five spiral galaxies. In total, there are five galaxies in the book.
We have three irrigation sprinklers in the garden. Two sprinklers are on the grass and one is near the flowers. Two is more than one. They all spray water in the sun.
Isaac has two red cars and three blue cars. Five is more than two. In total, he has five cars.
Ishmael has two brothers and one sister. He has more brothers than sisters. In total, he has three siblings.
There are three islands in the big blue lake. Two islands have tall trees. One island is small and sandy. Two is more than one. Altogether, three islands sit in the water.
I ate two plates of Italian food for lunch. One plate had pasta and one plate had pizza. Two is more than one. In total, I had two plates of yummy Italian food.
Italy has twenty regions. I visited three regions last year. My friend visited five regions. Five is more than three. In total, we saw eight regions together.
I have three items in my bag. Two items are books and one item is a toy. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three items.
There are two boys named Jack in my class. One Jack has red shoes, and the other Jack has blue shoes. They have the same number of crayons.
I saw three jackals in the tall grass. Two jackals were running fast. One jackal was sitting still. Two is more than one. In total, there were three jackals near the big tree.
I have two jackets in my closet. One jacket is blue and one jacket is red. I have the same number of each color. Two is more than one.
I have two jackfruits in my basket. One jackfruit is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. Altogether, I have two jackfruits.
There are two kids named Jackson in my class. One Jackson has red shoes and the other Jackson has blue shoes. They have the same number of toys in their cubbies.
Jacob has two small hands. He has five fingers on each hand. The left hand has the same number as the right hand. In total, Jacob has ten fingers.
I have two pieces of jade. One piece is green and one piece is white. Two is more than one.
I saw three jaguars at the zoo. Two jaguars were sleeping in the sun. One jaguar was walking slowly. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three big cats.
There are three jail cells in the small building. Two cells have one bed each. One cell is empty. Two is more than one. In total, there are three cells.
Jake has two red cars and three blue cars. Five is more than two. In total, Jake has five cars.
I have three jars of jam in my cupboard. Two jars are strawberry jam and one jar is grape jam. Two is more than one. In total, I have three jars of jam.
There are seven big islands near Jamaica. Three islands have tall trees and four islands have white sand. Three is fewer than seven. In total, seven islands are in the warm sea.
I have two friends from Japan. One friend gave me a small doll. The other friend gave me a red toy car. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two gifts from Japan.
I have three pieces of sushi on my plate. My friend has five pieces of sushi. Five is more than three. In total, we have eight pieces of sushi.
I have three jars on the shelf. Two jars are big and one jar is small. Two is more than one. In total, I have three jars.
Jason has two red cars and three blue cars. He has more blue cars than red cars. Altogether, he has five cars.
I saw two javelins on the field. One javelin is long and blue. The other javelin is short and red. Two is more than one.
I have one jaw with two parts. The top part has ten teeth and the bottom part has ten teeth. The two parts have the same number of teeth. Ten is more than two.
I have two jeans in my closet. One jean is blue and one jean is black. Two is more than one. They are both clean and ready to wear.
I have three pairs of jeans in my closet. Two jeans are blue and one jean is black. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three jeans to wear.
There are two Jeju Islands in my storybook. One Jeju Island has a big mountain and the other has a beach. They are the same size in the book.
I saw four jellyfish in the big tank. Two jellyfish are pink and two are blue. The pink ones are the same number as the blue ones. Four jellyfish float in the water.
Jesus had twelve friends called disciples. Three disciples were with him on a high mountain. Nine is more than three. In total, twelve disciples learned from Jesus.
I see two jets in the sky. One jet is big and one jet is small. The big jet has more windows than the small jet. Altogether, there are two jets flying fast.
I see two jet aircraft in the sky. One jet aircraft is big and one is small. They are not the same size. Two is more than one.
The big plane has four jet engines. Two jet engines are on the left wing and two are on the right wing. The left side has the same number as the right side. Four is more than two.
I have three jewels in my hand. Two jewels are red and one jewel is blue. Two is more than one. In total, I have three shiny jewels.
I have three rings and two necklaces. Five is more than three. In total, I have five pieces of jewellery.
I have three jigsaw puzzles. My friend has five jigsaw puzzles. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight puzzles.
Mom has a job at the school. She works with five other teachers. In total, six teachers work there. That is more than two.
John has two toy cars. His friend gives him three more cars. Now John has five cars in total. Five is more than two.
I have two knee joints and two elbow joints. That makes four joints in total. Two is the same as two. My body has more than four joints altogether.
Jordan has seven big cities. Amman is one city. Four cities are small. Seven is more than four.
There are five fish in the Jordan River. Three fish are small and two fish are big. Three is more than two. In total, five fish swim in the river.
There are three judges in the big room. Two judges wear black robes. One judge has a white wig. Two is more than one. In total, three judges sit at the front.
I have two cups of juice. My friend has three cups of juice. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five cups of juice.
I have two jumpers in my drawer. One jumper is red and one jumper is blue. Two is more than one. They keep me warm.
I see three monkeys in the jungle. Two monkeys are eating bananas. One monkey is swinging on a vine. Three is more than one.
I see three juniper bushes in the garden. Two bushes are tall and one bush is short. Two is more than one. They have small blue berries.
I have five pieces of junk in my pocket. Three are old buttons and two are broken crayons. Three is more than two. In total, I have five pieces of junk to throw away.
Jupiter has four big moons that we can see. Two moons are larger than the other two. In total, there are four moons around Jupiter.
Jupiter had three children with his wife Juno. He had fewer than ten children in total. Two of his children were Mars and Vulcan.
The jury has twelve people in total. Six people sit on one side and six people sit on the other side. The two sides have the same number of people.
There are two tall mountains called K2. One mountain is very high. Two mountains are fewer than ten mountains in the range.
The Kalahari Desert has two big sand dunes and three small bushes. Two is fewer than three. In total, there are five things to see.
I have three kale leaves on my plate. My friend has two kale leaves. Three is more than two. In total, we have five kale leaves.
Kali has two small dogs and three big dogs. Five is more than two. In total, Kali has five dogs.
I saw six kangaroos at the zoo. Two kangaroos were hopping fast. Four kangaroos were eating grass. Four is more than two. In total, there were six kangaroos.
We have three microphones for karaoke. Two kids sing into them. One kid waits for a turn. Two is more than one.
I saw two katanas at the museum. One katana had a shiny blade. The other katana had a dark handle. Two is more than one.
I see two kayaks by the lake. One kayak is red and one kayak is blue. They have the same number of seats. Two is more than one.
I have three small keys in my pocket. Two keys are for the front door and one key is for the back door. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three keys to open the doors.
There are three keepers at the zoo. Two keepers feed the lions. One keeper cleans the cages. Two is more than one. Altogether, three keepers take care of the animals.
I see three pieces of kelp in the ocean. Two pieces are long and green. One piece is short. Two is more than one. Altogether, they sway in the water.
Kenya has five big lakes. Two lakes are home to many pink flamingos. Three lakes have fewer birds than the two big lakes.
I have two ketchup packets on my plate. My friend has three ketchup packets. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five ketchup packets.
I have three keys on my key ring. One key opens the front door. Two keys are for the back door. Three is more than one.
I see two keyboards on the desk. One keyboard is white and one is black. They have the same number of keys. Two is more than one.
I see two keyboards on the desk. One keyboard is black and one is white. They have the same number of keys. In total, there are two keyboards.
I see two keyboards in the music room. One keyboard has black and white keys. The other keyboard is smaller. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are two keyboards to play.
There are six kids playing in the park. Three kids are on the swings and two kids are on the slide. Three is more than two. One kid is sitting on the bench. In total, there are six kids having fun.
People have two kidneys inside their body. One kidney is on the left side and one kidney is on the right side. They have the same number of kidneys. Two kidneys work together to clean the blood.
There are six killer whales in the big blue ocean. Three killer whales are swimming fast. Two killer whales are jumping high. Three is more than two. In total, there are six killer whales in the water.
I have three kin in my house. Mom and Dad are two kin. My baby sister is one more kin. Three is more than two. Altogether, we are three kin.
A king has one crown on his head. Two kings have two crowns in total. One is fewer than two.
There are seven kingdoms in the story. Three kingdoms are big and four kingdoms are small. Four is more than three. In total, seven kingdoms have their own kings.
A family has five people in total. Mom and Dad are two people. I have three siblings. Three is more than two. We all share the same last name.
I have two kits for making a birdhouse. One kit has more pieces than the other. Altogether, I have three kits in my room.
Our kitchen has four chairs and one table. Four is more than one. In total, there are five things in the kitchen.
I have two kites. One kite is red and one kite is blue. Two is more than one. They fly high in the sky.
I see four kittens playing in the yard. Two kittens are gray and two are orange. The gray ones have the same number as the orange ones. Four is more than two.
I see three kiwis in the zoo. Two kiwis are eating fruit. One kiwi is sleeping. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three kiwis.
I have three kiwifruits in my lunch box. My friend has two kiwifruits. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five kiwifruits.
I have two knees. One knee is on my left leg and one knee is on my right leg. They are the same number.
I see four knives on the kitchen counter. Two knives are big and two knives are small. The big knives are more than the small knives? No, they are the same number. In total, there are four knives.
I see three knights on horses. Two knights have shiny swords. One knight has a shield. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three knights.
The door has four knobs. Two knobs are round and two knobs are square. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four knobs on the door.
I tied three knots in the rope. My friend tied five knots. Five is more than three. In total, we tied eight knots.
I have ten knuckles on my two hands. Four knuckles are on one hand and four on the other. That is the same number. Two knuckles are on my thumbs. Ten is more than two.
I saw three koalas in the tree. Two koalas were eating leaves. One koala was sleeping. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three koalas.
I have two kohlrabi in my lunch box. My friend has three kohlrabi. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five kohlrabi.
There are six koi fish in the pond. Two koi are orange and four koi are white. Four is more than two. Altogether, they swim in a happy group.
There are two big parks in Kolkata. One park has a tall tree. The other park has a small pond. Two is more than one. In total, there are two parks to play in.
I saw two komodo dragons at the zoo. One dragon was big and one was small. The big one is more than the small one. They have long tongues.
I have been to Korea two times. My friend went three times. Three is more than two.
There are two towns in Kosovo that I know. One town is big and one town is small. The big town has more people than the small town.
There are ten krill swimming in the sea. Six krill are small and four krill are big. Six is more than four. In total, they make a tasty snack for a whale.
There are two small statues of Krishna on the shelf. One statue is blue and one statue is white. They have the same number of arms. Two is more than one.
There are five krishna rivers in the story. Two rivers are wide and three rivers are narrow. Three is more than two. In total, they flow to the sea.
I have three kumquats in my lunch box. My friend has five kumquats. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight kumquats.
I see four Kurdish people in the picture. Two are wearing colorful clothes and two are wearing plain clothes. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four Kurdish people smiling.
I visited Kyoto with my family. We saw five temples in one day. Two temples were very old and three temples had big gardens. Five is more than two. In total, we saw five beautiful temples.
There are three labs in the science building. Two labs have big tables and one lab has small desks. Two is more than one. In total, three labs are ready for experiments.
I have three labels on my desk. Two labels are red and one label is blue. Two is more than one. In total, I have three labels to use.
The laboratory has six big tables. Four tables have microscopes on them. Two tables have beakers and tubes. Four is more than two. In total, there are six tables in the room.
I have two laces on my shoes. One lace is red and one lace is blue. They have the same number of holes. Two is more than one.
I see two ladders in the yard. One ladder is tall and one ladder is short. The tall ladder has more steps than the short ladder. In total, there are two ladders.
I have two ladles in the kitchen. One ladle is big and one ladle is small. The big ladle holds more soup than the small one. In total, I have two ladles.
There are four ladies in the park. Two ladies sit on a bench and two ladies walk on the grass. The same number of ladies sit and walk. Altogether, there are four ladies.
I see four lady beetles on the green leaf. Two lady beetles have black spots. Two lady beetles have no spots. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four lady beetles.
I saw six ladybugs on a big green leaf. Four ladybugs have black spots. Two ladybugs have no spots. Four is more than two. In total, there are six ladybugs crawling slowly.
There are two lagoons near the beach. One lagoon has three fish. The other lagoon has five fish. Five is more than three.
I see two lakes in the park. One lake has three ducks. The other lake has five ducks. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight ducks on the lakes.
There are two lakes called Lake Albert in Africa. One lake is in Uganda and the other is in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. They are not the same lake. Two is more than one.
There are five fish in Lake Baikal. Three fish are small and two fish are big. Three is more than two. In total, there are five fish swimming.
There are three lakes near my home. Lake Chad is one of them. Two lakes are smaller than Lake Chad. Lake Chad is the biggest lake in total.
There are five lakes in the Lake District. Two lakes are big and three lakes are small. Three is more than two. In total, there are five lakes to see.
There are five boats on Lake Erie. Two boats are big and three boats are small. Three is more than two. In total, five boats float on the water.
There are five boats on Lake Huron. Two boats are big and three boats are small. Three is more than two. In total, five boats float on the blue water.
There are five fish in Lake Malawi. Three fish are blue and two fish are yellow. Three is more than two. In total, there are five fish swimming together.
I saw two lakes on the map. One lake is Lake Michigan and the other is a small pond. Lake Michigan is bigger than the pond. Two is more than one.
I see two lakes in Nicaragua. One lake is big and one lake is small. The big lake has more water than the small lake. In total, there are two lakes.
There are five boats on Lake Ontario. Two boats are big and three boats are small. Three is more than two. In total, five boats float on the water.
There are five big lakes in North America. Lake Superior is one of them. It is larger than the other four lakes. Two lakes are smaller than Lake Superior. In total, the five lakes hold a lot of water.
There are two lakes near the big mountain. Lake Titicaca is one of them. The other lake is smaller. Lake Titicaca has more water than the small lake.
There are five boats on Lake Victoria. Two boats are big and three boats are small. Three is more than two. In total, five boats float on the water.
There are two lakes in Manitoba. Lake Winnipeg is one of them. The other lake is smaller than Lake Winnipeg. Two is more than one.
I have two small statues of Lakshmi on my shelf. One statue has gold paint and one statue has red paint. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
There are six lambs in the green field. Four lambs are white and two lambs are black. Four is more than two. Altogether, they play and jump in the sun.
I have two lamps in my room. One lamp is on the desk. The other lamp is by the bed. Two is more than one. They both give light at night.
I saw two lampreys in the tank. One lamprey is long and gray. The other lamprey is shorter. Two is more than one.
The knight has one lance. He holds it with two hands. One is fewer than two.
I see four land transports on the road. Two are cars and two are trucks. The cars and trucks have the same number. Four is more than two.
There are three landfills near our town. One landfill is very big, and two landfills are small. One is fewer than two. Altogether, they hold a lot of trash.
A hill is a landform. I see two hills near my house. One hill is big and one hill is small. The big hill is more than the small hill. In total, there are two hills.
I saw three landscape paintings at the art show. Two paintings show green hills and one painting shows a blue river. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three beautiful paintings.
There are three lanes on the road. Two lanes are for cars and one lane is for bikes. Two is more than one. In total, three lanes help cars and bikes move safely.
I see six lanterns hanging in a row. Three lanterns are red and three lanterns are yellow. The two colors have the same number. In total, six lanterns glow bright at night.
Mom has one lap. Two kittens sit on her lap. One lap holds more than one kitten. Altogether, three are cozy.
The large intestine is one long tube inside your body. It has two main parts: the colon and the rectum. The colon is longer than the rectum. Together, they help digest food.
I saw four larks in the field. Two larks flew up high. Two larks stayed on the ground. Two is the same as two. In total, there were four larks.
I see six larvae on the leaf. Three larvae are small and three larvae are big. They have the same number of legs. Two larvae are eating a hole in the leaf.
I see two red lasers on the wall. One laser is from a small toy. The other laser is from a bigger toy. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are two lasers making dots.
I have two latches on my toy box. One latch is silver and one latch is gold. Two is more than one. They keep the box closed tight.
Dad has one lathe in his workshop. He uses it to shape wood. Two small pieces of wood sit on the bench. One lathe is fewer than two pieces of wood.
I see two launch vehicles at the space center. One launch vehicle is tall and white. The other launch vehicle is shorter. Two is more than one. Altogether, they are ready for a big trip.
I have three lavender plants in my garden. Two plants have purple flowers, and one plant has green leaves. Two is more than one. In total, I have three lavender plants.
I see three lawns in front of the houses. One lawn has two flowers. Two lawns have more flowers than that. The first lawn has fewer flowers than the others.
Dad has two lawn mowers in the shed. One lawn mower is red and one is green. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
There are four lawyers in the big office. Two lawyers talk on the phone. Two lawyers read books. Two is the same as two. In total, four lawyers work here.
There are three leaders in our class. Two leaders help pass out papers. One leader helps clean up. Two is more than one. Altogether, three leaders help every day.
I see six leaves on the big tree. Three leaves are green and three leaves are yellow. The green leaves and yellow leaves have the same number. Two leaves fall down. Now four leaves are left on the tree.
There is one leaning tower of Pisa in Italy. Two friends look at the tower. They see one tower, not two. One is fewer than two.
I have two leashes for my dogs. One leash is red and one leash is blue. Two is more than one. In total, I have two leashes to walk both dogs.
I saw six leeches in the pond. Two leeches are long and thin. Four leeches are short and fat. Four is more than two. In total, there are six leeches in the water.
I have three leeks in my basket. Mom has five leeks on the counter. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight leeks.
A dog has four legs. Two legs are in front and two legs are in back. The front legs have the same number as the back legs. Four is more than two.
I saw three legendary creatures in my book. Two were dragons and one was a unicorn. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three magical friends.
I have two leisure toys at home. One is a ball and one is a book. They are the same number. I play with them after school.
I have three lemons in my basket. My friend has two lemons. Three is more than two. In total, we have five lemons.
I have two cups of lemonade. My friend has three cups of lemonade. Three is more than two. In total, we have five cups of lemonade.
I saw four lemurs at the zoo. Two lemurs were eating fruit. Two lemurs were sleeping. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there were four lemurs.
There are three small boats on the Lena River. Two boats are red and one boat is blue. Two is more than one. In total, three boats float on the wide river.
I have two lenses in my glasses. One lens is for my left eye and one lens is for my right eye. They are the same number.
Mom cooked ten lentils in a pot. She put five lentils on my plate and five lentils on my sister's plate. We have the same number of lentils. Ten is more than five.
Leo has two red cars and three blue cars. Five is more than two. Altogether, Leo has five cars.
I saw three leopards at the zoo. Two leopards were sleeping on a big rock. One leopard was walking around. Two is more than one. In total, there were three leopards.
I saw three leprechauns under the big tree. Two leprechauns had green hats. One leprechaun had no hat. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three leprechauns.
We had three lessons today. Two lessons were about letters and one lesson was about numbers. Two is more than one. In total, we learned three new things.
I wrote five letters to my grandma. Three letters are for her birthday and two letters are for fun. Three is more than two. In total, I wrote five letters with my crayons.
I have three lettuce leaves on my plate. My friend has five lettuce leaves. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight lettuce leaves.
I see two levers on the playground. One lever is long and one lever is short. The long lever is more than the short lever in size. They help us lift things.
A leviathan is a big sea creature. I saw two leviathans in my book. One leviathan was blue and one was green. Two is more than one.
There are three lhasas in the big city. Two lhasas are near the park and one lhasa is by the school. Two is more than one. In total, there are three lhasas.
A librarian has two hands to hold books. Five children ask for help. The librarian helps more than two kids at once. In total, she helps five children.
Our school has one library with many books. I see two big shelves and three small tables. Two is fewer than three. In total, there are five places to sit and read.
I found six lichen patches on the big rock. Three patches are green and three patches are gray. They have the same number. Six is more than three.
I have three lids on the table. Two lids are red and one lid is blue. Two is more than one. In total, there are three lids.
A body has many ligaments. Two ligaments are in the knee. Three ligaments are in the ankle. Three is more than two. They help hold bones together.
I see three lights in the room. Two lights are on the ceiling and one light is on the table. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three lights.
I see six light bulbs in the room. Three light bulbs are on and three light bulbs are off. The same number are on and off. Two more light bulbs are in the box. In total, there are eight light bulbs.
I see three light microscopes on the table. Two microscopes have round lenses. One microscope has a broken knob. Two is more than one. In total, there are three light microscopes in the room.
There are two lighthouses by the sea. One lighthouse is tall and one is short. The tall one is more than the short one. In total, they help ships at night.
The room has four lights on the ceiling. Two lights are on and two lights are off. The same number are on and off. In total, there are four lights.
I saw two bright lightning bolts in the dark sky. One bolt was big and one bolt was small. The big bolt was more than the small bolt. In total, there were two lightning flashes.
I have three lilies in my garden. Two lilies are white and one lily is pink. Two is more than one. In total, I have three pretty lilies.
I see three lily of the valley plants in the garden. Two have white flowers and one has no flowers yet. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three plants.
I saw two limas at the park. One lima was big and one lima was small. The big lima is more than the small lima. Altogether, there are two limas.
I have six lima beans on my plate. Two lima beans are green and four are white. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six lima beans.
I have three limes in my lunch box. My friend has two limes. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five limes.
I drew five lines on my paper. Three lines are straight and two lines are wiggly. Three is more than two. In total, I have five lines.
I have two links on my toy chain. One link is red and one link is blue. They are the same number as my fingers. In total, I have two links.
There are six lions in the big field. Four lions are sleeping under a tree. Two lions are walking slowly. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six lions.
I have two lips on my face. My top lip and bottom lip are the same size. Two lips help me smile and talk.
I have two liquid crystal displays on my desk. One display shows a blue screen. The other display shows a green screen. Two is more than one. They both light up the room.
I have two pieces of liquorice. My friend has four pieces. Four is more than two. In total, we have six pieces of liquorice.
I have two lists on my paper. One list has three things and the other list has five things. Five is more than three. In total, I have eight things on both lists.
A person has one liver inside the body. Two livers are more than one. Most people have just one liver.
A farmer has ten livestock in the barn. Six are cows and four are sheep. Six is more than four. In total, there are ten animals.
I saw four lizards on the rock. Two lizards are green and two lizards are brown. They have the same number. One lizard ran away, so now there are three lizards left.
There are six llamas in the field. Four llamas have soft brown fur. Two llamas have white fur. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six llamas eating grass.
The hotel lobby has four big chairs and two small tables. Four is more than two. In total, there are six pieces of furniture in the lobby.
I saw four lobsters in the big tank. Two lobsters have big claws and two have small claws. The two with big claws are more than the two with small claws. In total, there are four lobsters.
I have three locks on my toy box. Two locks are red and one lock is blue. Two is more than one. In total, three locks keep my toys safe.
There are three locks on the canal. Two locks are open for boats. One lock is closed. Two is more than one.
I see four locomotives at the train station. Two locomotives are red and two are blue. The red ones have the same number as the blue ones. In total, there are four big locomotives.
I saw six locusts in the garden. Two locusts were on a leaf and four locusts were on the ground. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six locusts.
Our loft has two big windows and one small door. The loft has more windows than doors. In total, there are three openings in the loft.
I see three logs on the ground. Two logs are long and one log is short. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three logs in the yard.
There are three boats on the Loire River. Two boats are small and one boat is big. Two is more than one. In total, three boats float on the water.
I have three lollipops in my hand. My friend has five lollipops. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight lollipops.
I have been to London two times. My friend has been there three times. Three is more than two. In total, we have visited London five times.
I have two looms in my room. One loom is big and one loom is small. The big loom has more strings than the small loom. In total, I have two looms to weave with.
I saw three loons on the lake. Two loons were swimming and one loon was diving. Two is more than one. They all have black and white feathers.
I have two loops on my string. One loop is big and one loop is small. The big loop is more than the small loop. Altogether, I have two loops to play with.
I see four loudspeakers on the wall. Two loudspeakers are big and two are small. The big ones are more than the small ones. Altogether, there are four loudspeakers.
There are four chairs in the lounge. Two chairs are soft and two chairs are hard. They have the same number of soft and hard chairs. In total, there are four chairs to sit on.
A dog has three lice on its back. Two lice are small and one louse is big. Two is more than one. In total, there are three lice on the dog.
The Louvre has three big wings. Two wings have many paintings. One wing has fewer paintings than the other two. In total, there are three wings to explore.
Lucy has two red balloons and three blue balloons. Five is more than two. In total, Lucy has five balloons.
Mom sang two lullabies to me. She sang one more lullaby to my little sister. In total, she sang three lullabies tonight.
We have six pieces of lumber in the yard. Two pieces are long and four pieces are short. Four is more than two. In total, we have six pieces of lumber to build a small house.
I have two lumps of clay on the table. One lump is big and one lump is small. The big lump is more than the small lump. Altogether, I have two lumps.
I have two crackers for lunch. My friend has three crackers. Three is more than two. In total, we have five crackers to eat.
I have two lunchboxes in my bag. One lunchbox is red and one is blue. They have the same number of snacks. Two is more than one.
At lunchtime, four children sit at the table. Two children have sandwiches and two children have soup. The same number of children have sandwiches and soup. In total, four children eat together.
People have two lungs inside their chest. The left lung is smaller than the right lung. Two lungs work together to help you breathe. One lung is on each side of your body.
I saw three lungfish in the pond. Two lungfish have spots, and one lungfish is plain. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three lungfish swimming.
I see three lutes in the music room. Two lutes have six strings each. One lute has fewer strings than the others. Three is more than two.
Luxembourg is a small country. I know two cities there: Luxembourg City and Esch. Three is more than two. In total, there are more than three cities in Luxembourg.
I have six lychees in my bowl. My friend has four lychees. Six is more than four. Altogether, we have ten lychees.
There are three lynx in the snowy forest. Two lynx have tufted ears. One lynx has a short tail. Two is more than one. Altogether, they are three wild cats.
I saw four lyons at the zoo. Two lyons were sleeping under a big tree. Two lyons were walking near the rock. The number of sleeping lyons is the same as the number of walking lyons. In total, there are four lyons.
I see two lyres in the music room. One lyre has seven strings and the other has five strings. Seven is more than five. Altogether, there are two lyres to play.
I saw three lyrebirds in the forest. Two lyrebirds had long tails. One lyrebird had a shorter tail. Two is more than one. In total, three lyrebirds walked on the ground.
There are five Maasai people walking on the path. Three Maasai wear red cloths and two wear blue cloths. Three is more than two. In total, five Maasai walk together.
I have three macadamia nuts in my hand. My friend has five macadamia nuts. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight macadamia nuts.
I saw three macaques at the zoo. Two macaques were eating a banana. One macaque was sitting on a rock. Two is more than one. In total, there are three macaques.
Dad has two machetes in the shed. One machete is big and one is small. The big one is longer than the small one. Two is more than one.
I see four big machines at the park. Two machines are diggers and two machines are trucks. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four machines working together.
I saw five pictures of Machu Picchu. Three pictures show tall stone walls. Two pictures show green mountains. Three is more than two. In total, five pictures are on the wall.
I saw six mackerel in the big blue tank. Two mackerel are silver and four mackerel are dark blue. Four is more than two. They swim fast in the water.
There are two madams in the garden. One madam has a red hat. The other madam has a blue hat. Two is more than one.
I have three magazines on my desk. My sister has two magazines. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five magazines.
I have six magnets on the fridge. Three magnets are red and three magnets are blue. The red ones have the same number as the blue ones. Two magnets fell off, so now there are four left. Four is fewer than six.
We have four mahjong tiles on the table. Two tiles are red and two tiles are green. The same number of red and green tiles are here.
I have two pieces of mail in my hand. One is a letter and one is a card. They are the same number of items. Two is more than one.
I see two mailboxes on the street. One mailbox is red and one mailbox is blue. They have the same number of letters inside. Two is more than one.
I see two mailmen on the street. One mailman has a big bag. The other mailman has a small bag. One is more than zero. Altogether, there are two mailmen delivering letters.
There are three main doors in the big house. Two doors are red and one door is blue. Two is more than one. In total, there are three main doors.
I have six ears of maize. My friend has three ears of maize. Six is more than three. Altogether, we have nine ears of maize.
There are four makers in the workshop. Two makers build chairs and two makers build tables. They have the same number of workers. In total, four makers work together.
There are two mali in the village. One mali has a big tree. The other mali has a small house. Two is more than one.
There are three malls in our town. One mall has two floors and another mall has three floors. Three is more than two. In total, we have three malls to visit.
I saw six mallards at the pond. Four mallards have green heads and two mallards are brown. Four is more than two. In total, six mallards swim together.
I have one mama and one papa. Two people love me. One mama is the same as one papa. Altogether, I have two parents.
I saw two mambas in the tall grass. One mamba was long and green. The other mamba was shorter. Two is more than one.
I see three mammals in the yard. Two mammals are dogs and one mammal is a cat. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three mammals.
I saw two mammoths at the museum. One mammoth had big tusks. The other mammoth was smaller. Two is more than one.
I see two men at the park. One man is sitting on a bench. The other man is walking a dog. Two is more than one. In total, there are two men in the park.
We have two mancala boards in our classroom. One board has four stones in each cup. The other board has six stones in each cup. Six is more than four. Altogether, we have two boards to play with.
I have two mandarin oranges in my lunch box. My friend has three mandarin oranges. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five mandarin oranges.
I have three mandarin oranges in my lunch. My friend has five mandarin oranges. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight mandarin oranges.
I see two mandolins in the music room. One mandolin has four strings. The other mandolin has eight strings. Eight is more than four. Altogether, they make a pretty sound.
A lion has one mane on its head. Two lions have two manes. One is fewer than two.
I have three manga books on my shelf. My friend has five manga books. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight manga books.
I have three mangoes in my lunch box. My friend has two mangoes. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five mangoes.
I see four mangrove trees by the water. Two trees have small green leaves. Two trees have roots that stick up. The same number of trees have leaves and roots. In total, there are four mangrove trees.
There are four men in Manila. Two men walk to the store. Two men sit on a bench. Two is the same as two. In total, four men are in the city.
I have three manioc plants in my garden. Two plants have big leaves. One plant is small. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three manioc plants.
There are three mansions on the hill. Two mansions are big and one mansion is small. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three mansions.
I saw two manta rays at the aquarium. They swam in the big tank. One manta ray was bigger than the other. Two is more than one.
I saw two mantises on the green leaf. One mantis was big and one was small. The big one is more than the small one. In total, there are two mantises sitting still.
I have two maps in my room. One map shows the whole world. The other map shows our town. Two is more than one. In total, I have two maps to look at.
I see three maple trees in the yard. Two maple trees have red leaves. One maple tree has yellow leaves. Two is more than one. In total, there are three maple trees.
I have six marbles in my hand. Three marbles are blue and three marbles are red. The blue and red groups have the same number. Six is more than three.
I have six marbles in my hand. Two marbles are blue and four marbles are green. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six shiny marbles.
Mom has two tubs of margarine in the fridge. One tub is full and one tub is half full. The full tub has more margarine than the half tub. In total, we have two tubs of margarine.
Maria has two red balloons and three blue balloons. Five is more than two. In total, Maria has five balloons.
Marie has two dolls and three teddy bears. She has more teddy bears than dolls. In total, she has five toys.
Marie Curie was a scientist. She won two Nobel Prizes. That is more than one. She discovered two new elements.
I have six markers in my pencil case. Three markers are red and three markers are blue. The red and blue markers have the same number. Six is more than three.
There are four markets in our town. Two markets sell fruit and two markets sell toys. The fruit markets have more apples than the toy markets. In total, four markets are open today.
I saw two marlins jump out of the blue water. One marlin was big and one was small. The big one is more than the small one. In total, there are two marlins in the sea.
There are two moons that go around Mars. Mars has four big mountains. Two is fewer than four.
I saw three marsh birds by the water. Two birds had long legs and one bird had a short beak. Two is more than one. In total, three birds stood in the marsh.
I saw four marsupials at the zoo. Two marsupials had pouches with babies. Two marsupials were hopping around. Two is the same as two. In total, there were four marsupials.
I saw four martens in the forest. Two martens were climbing a tree. Two martens were on the ground. The number in the tree is the same as the number on the ground. Four is more than two.
There are three martins in the nest. Two martins are feeding the babies. One martin is watching from the branch. Two is more than one.
Mary has two dolls and three teddy bears. Three is more than two. In total, Mary has five toys.
Our school has two mascots. One mascot is a big tiger and one mascot is a small bear. They have the same number of legs, which is four. Two is more than one.
I have three masks in my bag. One mask is blue and two masks are white. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three masks to wear.
I have two balls of clay. One ball is big and one ball is small. The big ball has more mass than the small ball. In total, they have some mass.
I see two mastiffs in the park. One mastiff is big and brown. The other mastiff is black. Two is more than one. They both have four legs.
I have two mats on the floor. One mat is blue and one mat is red. They have the same number of mats. Two is more than one.
There are three mates on the bus. Two mates sit together and one mate sits alone. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three mates going to school.
The teacher has five pieces of material for art class. Three pieces are red paper and two pieces are blue cloth. Three is more than two. In total, she has five pieces of material.
Matter is everything around us. I have three blocks of wood and two cups of water. Three is more than two. In total, I have five things made of matter.
Max has four red blocks and six blue blocks. Six is more than four. In total, he has ten blocks to build with.
Maya has two red blocks and three blue blocks. Three is more than two. She has five blocks in total.
There are seven Maya people in the village. Three Maya people are weaving baskets. Four Maya people are making pots. Three is fewer than four. In total, seven Maya people are working together.
I have two jars of mayonnaise in the fridge. One jar is full and one jar is almost empty. The full jar has more mayonnaise than the empty one. In total, there are two jars.
Our town has one mayor. The mayor works with four helpers. One is fewer than four. They all help the town together.
I see two mazes on the table. One maze has a mouse and the other has a cat. The mouse maze is smaller than the cat maze. Two mazes are more than one maze.
I saw six sheep in the green meadow. Three sheep were eating grass and three sheep were resting. The two groups have the same number. In total, six sheep are in the meadow.
Mom made five meals for the week. Two meals are pasta and three meals are rice. Three is more than two. In total, we have five meals in the fridge.
I have three rulers on my desk. Two rulers are long and one ruler is short. Two is more than one. In total, I have three rulers to measure things.
Mom cut six pieces of meat for dinner. I ate three pieces and my dad ate three pieces. We ate the same number. Two pieces are left on the plate.
There are four mechanics at the shop. Two mechanics fix cars and two mechanics fix trucks. The same number fix cars and trucks. In total, four mechanics work hard.
I have three medals on my shelf. Two medals are gold and one medal is silver. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three shiny medals.
Mom gave me two medications in the morning. One medication is a pink pill and one is a white pill. Two is more than one. I take them with water.
Mom gave me two spoons of medicine in the morning. Dad gave me one spoon at night. Two is more than one. In total, I had three spoons of medicine today.
There are five countries around the Mediterranean Sea. Three countries have sunny beaches and two countries have big cities. Three is more than two.
I saw three megabats hanging from a tree. Two megabats have big brown wings. One megabat is smaller. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three megabats.
The Mekong River is very long. Five boats float on the river. Three boats are big and two boats are small. Three is more than two. In total, five boats are on the water.
I heard four melodies on the radio. Two melodies were fast and two were slow. The fast ones had the same number as the slow ones. Four is more than two.
I have three melons in my kitchen. Two melons are green and one melon is yellow. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three melons to eat.
The club has ten members. Four members are girls and six members are boys. Six is more than four. In total, there are ten members in the club.
I have four memory cards. Two are blue and two are red. The blue ones are fewer than the red ones. In total, I have four memory cards.
I have two mentha plants in my garden. One mentha has four leaves, and the other has six leaves. Six is more than four. Altogether, they have ten leaves.
There are four toy planets in my room. One is Mercury, the smallest planet. Three other planets are bigger than Mercury. Four is more than one.
There are eight planets in our solar system. Mercury is the first planet from the sun. It is smaller than Earth. Four planets are rocky like Mercury. Five planets are gas giants. Four is fewer than five.
I saw three mermaids in the blue sea. Two mermaids have long red hair. One mermaid has short green hair. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three mermaids swimming.
I saw two mesas in the desert. One mesa was tall and one mesa was short. The tall mesa is more than the short mesa. In total, there are two mesas.
I have three messages on my phone. Two messages are from Mom and one message is from Dad. Two is more than one. In total, I have three messages to read.
I saw four meteors in the dark sky last night. Two meteors were very bright and fast. Two is the same as two. Four is more than two.
The playground is ten meters long. Five meters is less than ten meters. Two meters is the same as two big steps.
A metre is a long stick. Two metres are longer than one metre. Three metres are more than two metres.
I saw two metro trains at the station. One metro was blue and one metro was red. Two is more than one. They both took people home.
Mom made eight tacos for dinner. I ate three tacos and Dad ate three tacos. We ate the same number. Two tacos are left on the plate.
Mexico City has nine big parks. Five parks have playgrounds and four parks have gardens. Five is more than four. In total, there are nine parks to visit.
There are five cars in Miami. Three cars are red and two cars are blue. Three is more than two.
I see six mice in the barn. Four mice are eating cheese. Two mice are sleeping. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six mice.
I see three microphones on the stage. Two microphones are tall and one is short. Two is more than one. They are all ready for the singers.
The science shelf has two microscopes. One microscope is big and one is small. They have the same number of lenses. Two is more than one.
We have two microwaves in the kitchen. One microwave is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. In total, there are two microwaves.
We have two microwave ovens in the kitchen. One is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. In total, there are two microwave ovens to heat food.
We walked one mile to the park. Then we walked two miles back home. Two is more than one. In total, we walked three miles today.
I see four military aircraft in the sky. Two are big and two are small. The big ones are more than the small ones. Altogether, there are four aircraft.
I have two cups of milk on the table. My friend has three cups of milk. Three is more than two. In total, we have five cups of milk.
I see four milkfish in the big tank. Two milkfish are silver and two are gray. The silver ones are the same number as the gray ones. Four is more than two.
I see five stars in the milky way. Three stars are bright and two stars are dim. Three is more than two. In total, there are five stars in the night sky.
There are two mills by the river. One mill has a big wheel. The other mill has a small wheel. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are two mills.
I have three bowls of millet. One bowl has two spoonfuls of millet. Another bowl has three spoonfuls. Three is more than two. Altogether, I have five spoonfuls of millet.
I found six millipedes under the log. Four millipedes have many legs. Two millipedes are smaller. Four is more than two. Altogether, six millipedes crawl slowly.
I have three mimosa plants in my room. Two plants have yellow flowers. One plant has no flowers yet. Two is more than one.
I have three minerals in my rock collection. One mineral is shiny and two minerals are dull. Three is more than two.
I saw two minotaurs in the storybook. One minotaur had big horns. The other minotaur had small horns. Two is more than one. They both lived in a maze.
There are sixty minutes in one hour. Five minutes is less than ten minutes. We wait for two minutes before the bell rings.
I see two mirrors in the room. One mirror is big and one mirror is small. The big mirror is more than the small one in size. They both show my face.
I have two mittens on my hands. One mitten is red and one mitten is blue. They are the same number as my hands. Two mittens keep my fingers warm.
I have two mixers in the kitchen. One mixer is big and one mixer is small. The big mixer is more than the small one. In total, I have two mixers to make cakes.
I have two mixtures in my bowl. One mixture has sand and water. The other mixture has oil and water. Two is more than one.
I saw three moa in the forest. Two moa were eating leaves. One moa was taller than the other two. Three is more than one.
I saw two moai statues at the park. One moai is tall and one moai is short. They are the same number as the two trees next to them.
A castle has one moat around it. Two bridges cross the moat. One bridge is more than zero bridges.
A mob of crows has ten birds in the sky. Five crows sit on a fence and five crows fly above. The two groups have the same number. Ten is more than five.
I have two mobile phones. One mobile phone is red and one mobile phone is blue. Two is more than one.
I have two mobile devices at home. One is a phone and one is a tablet. They have the same number of screens. Two is more than one.
I see six mobile phones on the table. Three phones are black and three phones are white. The two colors have the same number. Six is more than three.
I see two mockingbirds on the fence. One mockingbird sings a loud song. Two is more than one. They both have gray feathers.
I have two model cars on my shelf. My friend has three model cars. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five model cars.
I see four pieces of mold on the old bread. Two are green and two are white. The green spots are more than the white ones. In total, there are four spots of mold.
I have two toy maps with Moldova on them. One map is big and one map is small. The big map has more colors than the small map. In total, I have two maps of Moldova.
I saw three moles in the garden. Two moles were digging holes. One mole was sleeping. Two is more than one. In total, there are three moles.
I saw five mole crickets in the garden. Two mole crickets were digging in the dirt. Three mole crickets were hiding under a rock. Three is more than two. In total, there were five mole crickets.
A water molecule has two tiny hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom. Two is more than one. Three atoms are in one water molecule in total.
I found four molluscs at the beach. Two molluscs have hard shells. Two molluscs have soft bodies. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four molluscs in the sand.
I saw five mollusca at the beach. Three mollusca had shells and two did not. Three is more than two. In total, there were five mollusca in the sand.
I have one mom and one dad. Two parents in total. Mom is more than one person, but I have only one mom.
I have one mommy. My friend has one mommy too. We have the same number of mommies. Two mommies are in the park.
There are three kids named Mona in my class. Two Monas have long hair and one Mona has short hair. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three Monas.
There are three monks in the small monastery. Two monks sit on a bench. One monk is alone. Two is more than one. In total, three monks live there.
I have three coins in my pocket. My friend has five coins. Five is more than three. Altogether we have eight coins.
There are three mongols on the horses. Two mongols ride fast. One mongol stays behind. Two is more than one.
I saw three mongooses in the grass. Two mongooses were eating a bug. One mongoose was watching. Two is more than one. Altogether, three mongooses were there.
There are three monks in the temple. Two monks are sitting and one monk is standing. Two is more than one. In total, there are three monks.
I see four monkeys at the zoo. Two monkeys are eating bananas. Two monkeys are swinging on a branch. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four monkeys.
We have two Monopoly games in our closet. One game has four player pieces and the other has six. Six is more than four. Altogether, we have ten player pieces.
We have three Monopoly games in the closet. Two games are old and one game is new. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have three games to play.
The park has two monorail trains. One monorail is blue and one is red. They have the same number of cars. Two is more than one.
A platypus is a monotreme. I saw two platypuses at the zoo. They were swimming in the water. One platypus was bigger than the other. Two is more than one.
I see four monsters under my bed. Two monsters are big and two monsters are small. The big monsters have more teeth than the small ones. Altogether, there are four monsters hiding in the dark.
We saw two Mont Blanc peaks from the window. One peak is tall and one peak is small. Two is more than one.
There are twelve months in one year. Six months have thirty days and four months have thirty-one days. Six is more than four. February is the only month with fewer days.
I see one big moon in the sky at night. Two small moons are fewer than one big moon. There is only one moon in total.
I saw three moose in the woods. Two moose had big antlers. One moose had no antlers. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three moose.
I have two mops in the closet. One mop is blue and one mop is green. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two mops to clean the floor.
I have two small flags from Morocco. My friend has three flags from Morocco. Three is more than two. In total, we have five flags.
I know two friends who use morse code. They tap three short sounds and one long sound. Three is more than one.
Moses had two brothers. He had one sister named Miriam. Two is more than one. In total, he had three siblings.
There are two mosques in our town. One mosque has a tall tower. The other mosque is smaller. Two is more than one.
I see six mosquitoes near the pond. Two mosquitoes are on my arm. Four mosquitoes are flying in the air. Four is more than two. In total, six mosquitoes buzz around.
I found three patches of moss on the old stone wall. Two patches are green and one patch is brown. Two is more than one. In total, there are three patches of moss.
I saw six moths near the light last night. Four moths were white and two moths were brown. Four is more than two. They flew around the lamp together.
I have one mother. She has two hands to hold me. One mother is more than zero. I love her very much.
I see two motors on the toy car. One motor is big and one motor is small. The big motor is more than the small one. In total, there are two motors.
I see four motorcycles on the street. Two motorcycles are red and two are blue. The red ones and blue ones have the same number. Four is more than two.
I see two mountains outside my window. One mountain is tall and one mountain is short. The tall mountain is more than the short one. In total, there are two mountains.
I see four mice in the barn. Two mice are brown and two mice are gray. The brown mice have the same number as the gray mice. Four is more than two.
I have one mouth. My friend has one mouth too. We have the same number of mouths. Two mouths can sing a song together.
I watched two movies on Saturday. My friend watched three movies. Three is more than two. In total, we watched five movies.
I went to a movie festival with my family. We saw four movies on the first day and three movies on the second day. Four is more than three. In total, we saw seven movies at the festival.
There are two movie theatres on our street. One theatre has five big screens. The other theatre has three screens. Five is more than three. In total, they have eight screens.
There are three Mr. Smiths in my family. Two Mr. Smiths are tall and one is short. Two is more than one.
I have three mugs on the table. Two mugs are blue and one mug is red. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three mugs.
I have three mulberries in my hand. Two mulberries are dark purple and one is red. Two is more than one. In total, I have three mulberries to eat.
I saw four mules in the field. Two mules were brown and two mules were gray. The brown mules have the same number as the gray mules. Four is more than two.
I saw six mullet in the clear pond. Three mullet swam near the big rock. Three more mullet joined them. Six is more than three. Altogether, six mullet swam in the water.
I have one mum and one dad. Two people love me very much. One mum is the same as one dad in how much they care.
I have two toy trains from Mumbai. My friend has three toy trains from Mumbai. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five toy trains.
I have two mummies at home. One mummy reads me a story. The other mummy tucks me in. Two is more than one. They both love me very much.
The class painted one big mural on the wall. Four children worked on the left side and four children worked on the right side. The two groups have the same number of kids. In total, eight children helped make the mural.
There are three muscats in the big garden. Two muscats have sweet fruit. One muscat has fewer grapes than the others. In total, they have many green grapes.
A person has many muscles in their body. I can name three big muscles: the bicep, the tricep, and the quadricep. Five small muscles help move my fingers. Three is fewer than five.
Our class went to the museum. We saw four big dinosaur bones and two small ones. Four is more than two. In total, we saw six bones at the museum.
I went to the museum of modern art with my class. We saw five big paintings on the wall. Two paintings were very colorful. Three paintings had only one color. Two is fewer than three. In total, we saw five paintings.
I found six mushrooms in the garden. Three mushrooms are big and three are small. The big ones are the same number as the small ones. Two mushrooms have spots on top.
I have three musical instruments at home. Two are drums and one is a small bell. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three instruments to play.
There are four musicians on the stage. Two musicians play the guitar and two play the drums. The guitar players have the same number as the drum players. In total, four musicians make a band.
I saw four musk oxen on the hill. Two musk oxen have big horns. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four musk oxen.
I saw three muskrats by the pond. Two muskrats were swimming, and one was eating. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three muskrats.
Dad has one mustache on his face. My brother has no mustache. One is more than zero.
There are six mustelids in the zoo. Two mustelids are otters and four mustelids are ferrets. Four is more than two. In total, they are all mustelids.
I see two pieces of mutton on the plate. One piece is big and one piece is small. The big piece is more than the small piece. Altogether, there are two pieces of mutton.
I see myself in the mirror. There is one me. My friend has two mirrors. That is more than one.
There are seven Māori people in the room. Three Māori people are singing a song. Four Māori people are dancing. Four is more than three. Altogether, there are seven Māori people.
I have five nails on my workbench. Three nails are long and two nails are short. Three is more than two. In total, I have five nails to use.
I have ten nails on my hands. Five nails are on my left hand and five nails are on my right hand. The two hands have the same number of nails. Ten is more than five.
I saw two naja snakes in the grass. One naja was long and black. The other naja was shorter. Two is more than one.
I have two names: one is my first name and one is my last name. Two is more than one.
I have three napkins on the table. My friend has two napkins. Three is more than two. In total, we have five napkins.
I see three yellow narcissus flowers in the garden. Two are tall and one is short. Two is more than one. They all have a sweet smell.
I went to the natural history museum with my class. We saw four big dinosaur bones and two small fossils. Four is more than two. In total, we saw six old things from long ago.
Earth has one natural satellite called the Moon. Mars has two natural satellites. One is fewer than two. In total, there are three natural satellites in our solar system.
There are four naval mines in the water. Two mines are round and two mines are spiky. Two is the same as two. They float together in the sea.
There are five navy sailors on the big ship. Two sailors stand tall and three sailors sit down. Two is fewer than three. In total, five sailors work together.
I saw two neanderthals in a book. One neanderthal is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. In total, there are two neanderthals.
I see two nebulas in the big space book. One nebula is blue and one nebula is pink. Two is more than one. They are both very far away.
I have one neck. My dog has one neck too. We have the same number of necks. Two necks in total.
Mom has three necklaces in her jewelry box. Two necklaces are gold and one necklace is silver. Two is more than one. In total, she has three necklaces.
I have three needles in my sewing box. Two needles are long and one needle is short. Two is more than one. In total, I have three needles to use.
I have two neighbors next door. One neighbor has a dog. The other neighbor has a cat. Two is more than one. In total, there are two neighbors on my street.
There are six houses in my neighborhood. Three houses have red doors and three houses have blue doors. The same number of houses have red and blue doors. Two dogs live on my street. Six is more than two.
Our neighbourhood has ten houses on one street. Five houses have red doors and five houses have blue doors. The same number of houses have red and blue doors. In total, there are ten houses in our neighbourhood.
I have three nelumbo plants in my garden. Two nelumbo have big green leaves. One nelumbo has a pink flower. Two is more than one. In total, I have three nelumbo plants.
I have two friends from Nepal. They told me about ten tall mountains in Nepal. Two is fewer than ten.
I have two nephews. One nephew is three years old. The other nephew is five years old. Five is more than three. They both like to play with blocks.
Neptune is a big blue planet far away. Four moons go around Neptune. Two moons are bigger than the other two. In total, Neptune has more than two moons.
I see three nests in the tall tree. Two nests have baby birds inside. One nest is empty. Two is more than one. In total, there are three nests in the tree.
I have two nets for catching bugs. One net is blue and one net is green. I have the same number of nets as my friend. In total, we have four nets.
There are seven players on a netball team. Four players are on the court and three players are on the bench. Four is more than three. In total, seven players work together.
A brain has many tiny neurons. Three neurons look like three little stars. Five neurons are more than three. They help us think and move.
I have two new crayons and three new pencils. Two is fewer than three. Altogether, I have five new things.
I saw five flags in New Orleans. Three flags are on a tall building. Two flags are on a small boat. Three is more than two.
I see five new world monkeys in the tree. Three monkeys have long tails. Two monkeys are smaller. Three is more than two. Altogether, there are five monkeys.
I saw two new world vultures in the sky. One vulture flew low and one vulture flew high. Two is more than one. They circled together in the blue sky.
We have two new year parties at school. One party is in the morning and one party is in the afternoon. The morning party has more children than the afternoon party. In total, we have two parties to celebrate the new year.
New York has five big cities and five small towns. Five is the same number as five. In total, there are ten places to visit.
I have been to New York City two times. My friend has been there three times. Three is more than two. In total, we have visited five times.
I saw two New York City subway trains at the station. One train was red and one train was blue. Two is more than one. They both had many people inside.
I saw two Newfoundland dogs at the park. They were big and fluffy. Three more dogs came to play. Five dogs in total is more than two.
I have three newspapers on the table. My dad has five newspapers in his bag. Five is more than three. In total, we have eight newspapers to read.
I saw four newts in the pond. Two newts were swimming and two newts were resting on a rock. The same number were swimming and resting. Four newts in total.
Newton is a name. Two boys in my class are named Newton. That is more than one.
I have two nieces. One niece is three years old. The other niece is five years old. Five is more than three. Altogether, I have two sweet nieces.
The Niger River is very long. Five boats float on the river. Two boats are big and three boats are small. Three is more than two. In total, five boats are on the water.
We saw five stars in the night sky. Three stars were bright, and two stars were dim. Three is more than two. In total, five stars shone above us.
Five nightingales sing in the tree at night. Three nightingales have brown feathers, and two have lighter feathers. Three is more than two. They sing together in the dark.
I saw two nightjars in the tree. One nightjar flew away. One nightjar stayed. One is fewer than two.
The Nile is a long river. Five crocodiles live in the Nile. Two crocodiles are big and three are small. Three is more than two.
I have nine crayons in my box. Three crayons are red and six crayons are blue. Six is more than three. Altogether, I have nine crayons to draw with.
I see two ninjas hiding behind the big tree. Three more ninjas are on the roof. Five is more than two. Altogether, there are five ninjas in the yard.
Alfred Nobel gave five prizes each year. One prize is for peace and one prize is for science. Two prizes are fewer than five prizes in total.
I see two nodes on the tree branch. One node is big and one node is small. The big node is more than the small node. In total, there are two nodes on the branch.
I hear four loud noises outside. Two noises are from a big truck. Two noises are from a barking dog. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are four noises.
There are three nomads walking across the desert. Two nomads carry water bags. One nomad has a map. Three is more than one.
I have two non toys and three non blocks. Five is more than two. In total, I have five non things.
There are zero toys in the box. I have three toys, but my friend has none. Three is more than zero.
I have six noodles in my bowl. Two noodles are long and four noodles are short. Four is more than two. In total, I have six noodles for lunch.
I have two normal pencils and three normal erasers. Two is fewer than three. In total, I have five normal things.
There are two north islands in the map. One north island has a tall tree. The other north island has a small rock. One is more than zero.
There are five toy reindeer at the north pole. Two reindeer have red noses and three have brown noses. Three is more than two. In total, five reindeer stand in the snow.
I saw three northern pike in the lake. Two pike are big and one pike is small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three pike swimming together.
I have two toy boats from Norway. My friend has three toy boats from Norway. Three is more than two. In total, we have five toy boats.
I have one nose on my face. My friend has one nose too. We have the same number of noses. Two noses in total can smell flowers.
I have two nostrils on my nose. One nostril is on the left side and one nostril is on the right side. They are the same number. Two nostrils help me smell flowers.
I have three notes on my desk. Two notes are from my friend. One note is from my teacher. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three notes.
I have three notebooks on my desk. My friend has two notebooks. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five notebooks.
There are two towers at Notre-Dame de Paris. One tower has a big bell. The other tower has the same number of bells. Two is more than one.
I have three novels on my shelf. One novel has a red cover and two novels have blue covers. Two is more than one. In total, I have three novels to read.
I have two number cards in my hand. One card shows the number three and the other shows the number five. Five is more than three. Altogether, I have two number cards.
I see four numerical digits on the clock. Two digits are the number one and two digits are the number two. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four digits.
There are four nurses in the big hospital room. Two nurses help the doctor with a patient. Two nurses check the medicine. Two is the same as two. In total, four nurses work together.
I saw two nurse sharks in the big tank. One nurse shark was resting on the sand. Two is more than one. They have smooth skin and small eyes.
The nursery has ten little beds for babies. Five beds are blue and five beds are pink. The two colors have the same number of beds. Ten is more than five.
I have three nuts in my hand. My friend has five nuts. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight nuts.
I have six nuts in my hand. Three nuts are round and three nuts are long. They have the same number of each shape. In total, I have six nuts to eat.
I have six nuts on my desk. Two nuts are silver and four nuts are gold. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six nuts.
I have two nutmegs in my hand. Mom has three nutmegs in the jar. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five nutmegs.
I have two nylon strings on my toy. One string is long and one string is short. The long string is more than the short one.
There are six oak trees in the park. Three oaks have big leaves and three oaks have small leaves. The two groups have the same number of trees. Six is more than three.
I saw two oarfish at the beach. One oarfish is very long. Two oarfish are more than one. They have shiny silver bodies.
I saw two small oases in the desert. One oasis had three palm trees. The other oasis had five palm trees. Five is more than three. In total, there were eight palm trees by the water.
I have three oats in my bowl. My friend has five oats. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight oats.
Mom made oatmeal for breakfast. She put two bowls on the table. I ate one bowl and my sister ate one bowl. We had the same number of bowls. In total, we ate two bowls of oatmeal.
I have four objects on my desk. Two objects are red and two are blue. The red ones are the same number as the blue ones. In total, I have four objects.
I see two oboes in the music room. One oboe is long and black. The other oboe is shorter. Two is more than one. They make a soft sound together.
I made three observations at the park. Two observations were about birds. One observation was about a dog. Two is more than one. In total, I had three observations.
There are two observatories in our town. One observatory has a big telescope. The other observatory has a small telescope. Two is more than one. Altogether, they help us see stars.
I see five oceans on the big map. The Pacific Ocean is one of them. Three oceans are bigger than two oceans. The Atlantic Ocean is one more. In total, there are five oceans.
I saw two ocean sunfish at the aquarium. They are very big and round. One sunfish has a small tail. Two is more than one.
I saw four octopuses in the big tank. Two octopuses are small and two are big. The small ones are fewer than the big ones. In total, there are four octopuses swimming around.
A person has one oesophagus inside their body. It is a long tube that helps food go down. Two oesophagi are more than one, but we only have one.
There are four desks in the office. Two desks have computers on them. Two desks are empty. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four desks in the room.
There are six officers in the big room. Two officers have hats on their heads. Four officers do not wear hats. Four is more than two. In total, six officers are ready for work.
I saw five boats on the Ohio River. Two boats were big and three boats were small. Three is more than two. In total, five boats floated on the water.
I have two tubes of oil paint. One tube is red and one tube is blue. I have the same number of red and blue paint tubes.
There are two oil refineries near the big river. One oil refinery makes fuel for cars. Two is more than one. They work day and night.
I have three okra in my lunch box. My friend has two okra. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five okra.
I saw five old world monkeys at the zoo. Two monkeys had long tails and three monkeys had short tails. Three is more than two. In total, there were five monkeys in the big tree.
I see two old world vultures in the sky. One vulture has a big wingspan. Two is more than one. They fly together in the blue sky.
I have six olives on my plate. I ate two olives. Now I have four olives left. Four is more than two.
Five strong people do olympic weightlifting at the gym. Three lift a big bar and two lift a smaller bar. Three is more than two. In total, five people lift weights.
I have one red ball. My friend has two blue balls. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have three balls.
Mom cut three onions for dinner. Two onions are white and one onion is purple. Three is more than one. In total, we have three onions on the plate.
I saw four opossums in the backyard last night. Two opossums were eating from the bowl. Two more opossums were climbing the fence. Four is more than two. In total, there were four opossums.
I see two optical illusions in the book. One illusion looks like a vase, and the other looks like two faces. Two is more than one.
I have two optics kits in my science box. One kit has three lenses and the other has four lenses. Four is more than three. In total, I have seven lenses to look through.
I have three oranges in my lunch box. My friend has two oranges. Three is more than two. In total, we have five oranges.
I see three orange balls on the floor. Two orange balls are big and one is small. Two is more than one. They are fun to roll.
I have three oranges in my lunch box. My friend has two oranges. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five oranges.
I see two orange rivers on the map. One river is long and the other is short. The long river is more than the short river. In total, there are two orange rivers.
I saw two orangutans at the zoo. They had long arms and red fur. One orangutan ate a banana. The other swung on a rope. Two is more than one.
We saw two orchards on our walk. One orchard has seven apple trees. The other orchard has five pear trees. Seven is more than five. In total, there are twelve trees in the two orchards.
There are six kids in the little orchestra. Two kids play the drum and four kids play the flute. Four is more than two. Altogether, they make happy music.
I have three orchids in my room. Two orchids have pink flowers. One orchid has white flowers. Two is more than one. In total, I have three pretty orchids.
I found three pieces of ore in the dirt. Two pieces are shiny and one piece is dull. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three pieces of ore.
A person has two lungs and one heart. The heart is smaller than the lungs. In total, they have three main organs inside.
A person has two lungs and one heart. The heart is smaller than the two lungs. Three organs work together to keep us alive.
There are three organic farms near our town. Two farms have red apples and one farm has yellow apples. Two is more than one. In total, the farms grow many fruits.
A pond has many tiny organisms. I see five green organisms and three red ones. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight organisms swimming in the water.
Our class has two clubs. One club has four kids and the other club has four kids too. They have the same number of kids. In total, eight kids are in the clubs.
I made three origami cranes today. My friend made five origami cranes. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight origami cranes.
I see four bright stars in Orion. Three stars make a belt. One star is on the shoulder. Four is more than three.
I see two stars in the Orion Nebula. Three stars are more than two. They shine bright in the sky.
There are six orphans in the small house. Three orphans have brown hair and three have black hair. The two groups have the same number of children. In total, six orphans live together.
There are five children at the orphanage. Two children are playing with a ball. Three children are drawing pictures. Three is more than two. In total, five children live there.
I saw two ospreys by the lake. One osprey flew high with a fish. The other osprey sat on a branch. Two is more than one. They both looked for food in the water.
I have two other toys in my bag. My friend has three other toys. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five other toys.
There are five children playing in the park. Three children are on the swings and two children are on the slide. Three is more than two. In total, there are five children having fun.
I saw four otters at the zoo. Two otters were swimming in the water. Two otters were sleeping on the rock. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four otters.
I have two ottomans in my room. One ottoman is blue and one is red. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
There are five stars in outer space that we can see at night. Three stars are bright and two stars are dim. Three is more than two. In total, there are five stars in the dark sky.
A woman has two ovaries inside her body. Each ovary is small and round. Two is the same as two. They help make tiny eggs.
Mom has two ovens in the kitchen. One oven is big and one oven is small. The big oven is more than the small one. In total, there are two ovens for baking.
I saw two ovenbirds in the tree. One ovenbird flew to the nest. Two is more than one.
I saw five owls in the big tree last night. Two owls were sleeping and three owls were awake. Three is more than two. Altogether, there were five owls in the tree.
The dog has one owner. Two cats share the same owner. One is fewer than two.
I saw six oysters in the tide pool. Two oysters were open and four oysters were closed. Four is more than two. In total, six oysters sat in the shallow water.
I have two pads on my desk. One pad is white and one pad is yellow. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two pads to draw on.
I have two paddles for the boat. One paddle is long and one paddle is short. They are the same number as my hands. Two is more than one.
I have three pages of my book. My friend has five pages. Five is more than three. In total, we have eight pages.
There are three pagodas in the park. One pagoda is tall and two pagodas are short. Two is more than one. In total, there are three pagodas to see.
I have three jars of paint on my desk. Two jars are red and one jar is blue. Two is more than one. In total, I have three jars of paint.
I saw four painted turtles on a log by the pond. Two turtles slid into the water. Two turtles stayed on the log. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four painted turtles.
I see two painters on the street. One painter has a blue hat. The other painter has a red hat. Two is more than one. They both hold big brushes.
I made two paintings today. My friend made three paintings. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five paintings.
I have two pairs of socks. One pair is blue and one pair is red. Two is more than one.
I have three pajamas in my drawer. Two pajamas have stars, and one pajama has moons. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three cozy pajamas.
I have two pals at school. One pal has a red ball. The other pal has a blue ball. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have two balls.
There are two palaces in the old town. One palace is big and one palace is small. The big one has more towers than the small one. In total, they have ten towers.
The Palace of Versailles has many rooms. I saw five big rooms and three small rooms. Five is more than three. In total, eight rooms are very fancy.
I have two palms on my body. Each palm has five fingers. Two palms have ten fingers in total. Five is more than two.
I see four palm trees by the beach. Two palm trees are tall and two are short. The tall ones have more leaves than the short ones. In total, there are four palm trees.
Mom has three pans in the kitchen. Two pans are big and one pan is small. Two is more than one. Altogether, she has three pans for cooking.
There are five Panama hats on the shelf. Two hats are big and three hats are small. Three is more than two. In total, there are five hats.
There are five tall buildings in Panama City. Two buildings are near the water and three buildings are by the park. Three is more than two. In total, there are five buildings in the city.
I made six pancakes for breakfast. My dad ate two pancakes and I ate two pancakes. We ate the same number. Two pancakes are left on the plate. Six is more than two.
A person has one pancreas inside their body. The pancreas is a small organ. Two kidneys are bigger than one pancreas. The pancreas helps with food.
I saw three pandas at the zoo. Two pandas were eating bamboo. One panda was sleeping. Two is more than one. In total, there are three pandas.
I saw three pangolins in the zoo. Two pangolins were sleeping. One pangolin was eating ants. Two is more than one. In total, there are three pangolins.
I have two pairs of pants. One pair is blue and one pair is black. Two is more than one.
I have one papa. My friend has two papas. One is fewer than two. Altogether, we have three papas.
I have two papayas on my plate. My friend has three papayas. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five papayas.
I have three pieces of paper on my desk. My friend has five pieces of paper. Five is more than three. In total, we have eight pieces of paper.
I have two papyrus sheets on my desk. One sheet is long and one sheet is short. They are not the same size. Two is more than one.
I see two parachutes in the sky. One parachute is red and one is blue. They have the same number of strings. Two is more than one.
I saw a parade with ten people marching. Five people played drums and five people waved flags. The two groups had the same number of people. Ten is more than five.
Two paran rivers flow through the green valley. One river is wide and one river is narrow. The wide river has more water than the narrow one. In total, there are two rivers in the valley.
I have three parcels on the table. Two parcels are big and one parcel is small. Two is more than one. In total, I have three parcels to open.
I have two pieces of parchment on my desk. One parchment has a drawing of a tree. The other parchment has a drawing of a house. Two is more than one.
I have two parents at home. One parent is my mom and one parent is my dad. They both love me the same. Two is more than one.
There are three benches in the park. Two children sit on one bench. One child sits on another bench. Two is more than one. In total, there are three children at the park.
The parliament has ten members. Five members sit on the left side and five sit on the right side. The two sides have the same number of people. Ten is more than five.
I see four parrots in the big tree. Two parrots are green and two parrots are red. The green ones have the same number as the red ones. Four is more than two.
I have three parsley leaves on my plate. My friend has two parsley leaves. Three is more than two. In total, we have five parsley leaves.
I have three parsnips on my plate. My friend has two parsnips. Three is more than two. In total, we have five parsnips.
The toy has four parts. Two parts are red and two parts are blue. The red parts are the same number as the blue parts. In total, the toy has four parts.
The Parthenon has eight columns in the front and eight columns in the back. That is the same number. In total, there are sixteen columns on the outside. Six is fewer than eight.
I see four tiny particles on the slide. Two particles are round and two are square. They have the same number of each shape. In total, there are four particles.
We had a party with six friends. Four friends wore hats and two friends did not. Four is more than two. In total, six friends came to the party.
I saw three passenger pigeons in a big tree. Two pigeons flew away. One pigeon stayed. Two is more than one.
I see three passerine birds on the tree branch. Two are brown and one is gray. Two is more than one. They are small and sing together.
I have one passport for my trip. My mom has two passports, one old and one new. Two is more than one. In total, we have three passports on the table.
I have two passwords for my tablet. One password is for games and one password is for books. Two is more than one.
Mom made six pasta pieces for lunch. I ate two pasta pieces and my brother ate four. Four is more than two. Altogether, we ate six pasta pieces.
I have two jars of paste on my desk. One jar is full and one jar is almost empty. The full jar has more paste than the empty one. In total, I have two jars of paste for art time.
Mom baked six pastries for us. I ate two pastries and my brother ate two pastries. We ate the same number. Two pastries are left on the plate. Six is more than two.
I have two patches on my jacket. One patch is red and one patch is blue. Two is more than one.
I see two paths in the park. One path is short and one path is long. The short path has fewer trees than the long path. In total, there are three trees on the two paths.
A child has ten tiny pathogens on their hand. Five pathogens are round and five are long. The two groups have the same number. Ten is more than five.
The doctor saw six patients this morning. Four patients had a cough and two patients had a fever. Four is more than two. In total, six patients came to the clinic.
I see two patterns on the rug. One pattern has three red circles. The other pattern has five blue squares. Five is more than three. In total, there are two patterns on the rug.
A dog has four paws. Two paws are front paws and two paws are back paws. The front and back have the same number of paws. Four is more than two.
I have five peas on my plate. I eat two peas. Now I have three peas left. Three is fewer than five.
I have three peaches in my lunch box. My friend has two peaches. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five peaches.
I saw three peafowl in the park. Two peafowl have bright feathers. One peafowl has fewer feathers. Three is more than one.
I saw three mountain peaks from the window. Two peaks are tall and one peak is short. Two is more than one. In total, there are three peaks in the picture.
I have five peanuts in my hand. Two peanuts are in my left hand and three peanuts are in my right hand. Three is more than two. Altogether, I have five peanuts.
I have three pears in my lunch box. My friend has five pears. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight pears.
I found six pearls in the shell. Three pearls are white and three pearls are pink. The two colors have the same number. Six is more than three.
There are six peasants in the field. Two peasants are planting seeds. Four peasants are watering the plants. Four is more than two. Altogether, they work hard.
I found six pebbles by the pond. Four pebbles are smooth and gray. Two pebbles are rough and brown. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six pebbles in my hand.
I have four pecans in my hand. Two pecans are big and two are small. The big ones are more than the small ones? No, they are the same number. Altogether, I have four pecans.
I saw three peccaries in the forest. Two peccaries were eating nuts. One peccary was drinking water. Two is more than one. In total, three peccaries were there.
The bike has two pedals. One pedal is on the left and one pedal is on the right. They are the same number. Two pedals help the bike go fast.
I have three peers in my group. Two peers are girls and one peer is a boy. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have three peers.
I saw three pegasus in the sky. Two pegasus had white wings and one had gray wings. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three pegasus flying high.
I saw four pelicans at the pond. Two pelicans had big beaks. Two pelicans were smaller. Two is the same as two. In total, there were four pelicans.
A person has one pelvis in their body. Two legs connect to the pelvis. One is fewer than two.
I have six pens in my pencil case. Two pens are blue and four pens are red. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six pens to write with.
I have six pencils in my pencil case. Two pencils are red and four pencils are blue. Four is more than two. In total, I have six pencils to draw with.
The clock has one pendulum that swings back and forth. Two pendulums would be more than one. The pendulum moves slowly from side to side.
I see six penguins standing on the ice. Four penguins are big and two penguins are small. Four is more than two. In total, there are six penguins waddling together.
I have seven pennies in my pocket. Four pennies are shiny and three pennies are dull. Four is more than three. Altogether, I have seven pennies to buy a small treat.
There are six people in the park. Three people are sitting on a bench. Two people are playing with a ball. Three is more than two. One person is walking a dog. In total, there are six people.
I have three peppers in my basket. Two peppers are red and one pepper is green. Two is more than one. In total, I have three peppers.
I saw four perch in the pond. Two perch are big and two perch are small. The big ones have the same number as the small ones. Four is more than two.
I see four percussion instruments on the shelf. Two are drums and two are shakers. The drums and shakers have the same number. Four is more than two.
I saw two peregrine falcons flying high in the sky. One falcon had a dark back and the other had a light chest. Two is more than one. They are very fast birds.
Perseus has two hands and two feet. He has the same number of hands as feet. In total, he has four limbs.
I see six people at the park. Three people are sitting on a bench. Two people are playing with a ball. Three is more than two. One person is walking a dog. In total, there are six people.
I have two personal computers at home. One is for games and one is for school. Two is more than one.
There are three children with the name Lily in my class. Two children have the name Max. Three is more than two. In total, five children share these two names.
We have six pieces of personal protective equipment. Two are hard hats and four are safety glasses. Four is more than two. In total, we have six items to keep us safe.
The farmer put two bottles of pesticide on the shelf. One bottle is full and one bottle is empty. The full bottle has more than the empty one. In total, there are two bottles.
I have three pets at home. Two pets are fish and one pet is a dog. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three pets.
A flower has five petals. I picked two petals from one flower and three petals from another. Two is fewer than three. Altogether, I have five petals in my hand.
Peter Pan has four fairy friends. Tinker Bell is one fairy. Three other fairies help him fly. Four is more than one.
Petra has seven tall buildings made of stone. Three buildings are red and four buildings are pink. Four is more than three. In total, there are seven old buildings in Petra.
There are two pharaohs in the story. One pharaoh wears a tall crown. The other pharaoh has a gold mask. Two is more than one.
There are three pharmacists at the big store. Two pharmacists help people get medicine. One pharmacist checks the bottles. Two is more than one. Altogether, three pharmacists work there.
There are two pharmacies on our street. One pharmacy has a big red sign. The other pharmacy has a small green sign. Two is more than one.
I saw six pheasants in the field. Two pheasants had long tails. Four pheasants had bright feathers. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six pheasants.
I have three philodendrons in my room. Two philodendrons have big green leaves. One philodendron has small leaves. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three philodendrons.
I saw two phoenixes in the storybook. One phoenix had bright red feathers. The other phoenix had golden feathers. Two is more than one. Altogether, they looked very pretty.
Dad has two phones on the desk. One phone is black and one phone is white. Two is more than one. In total, there are two phones.
I have three photos on my wall. Two photos are of my family and one photo is of my dog. Two is more than one. In total, I have three photos to look at.
The office has two photocopiers. One photocopier is big and one is small. The big one can copy more pages than the small one. In total, they can make many copies.
I have two rolls of photographic film. One roll has ten pictures left. The other roll has fewer than ten pictures. Two is more than one.
A light has many tiny photons. Two photons fly together like little friends. Three photons are more than two. They all move very fast.
We have two big maps of physical geography. One map shows tall mountains and one map shows wide rivers. Two is more than one.
A physician helps sick people get better. There are two physicians in the big hospital. One physician has five patients today. The other physician has three patients. Five is more than three. In total, they have eight patients.
I see two pianos in the music room. One piano is big and black. The other piano is small and brown. Two is more than one. They both make pretty sounds.
We had a picnic with four friends. Two friends brought sandwiches and two friends brought juice. The same number of friends brought food and drink. In total, we had four things to share.
I have three pictures on my wall. Two pictures are of dogs and one picture is of a cat. Two is more than one. In total, I have three pictures.
Mom baked six pies for the party. Three pies are apple and three pies are cherry. The two kinds have the same number. In total, six pies sit on the table.
I have five puzzle pieces on the table. Three pieces are red and two pieces are blue. Three is more than two. Altogether, I have five pieces to put together.
I have two pier toys on my desk. One pier is blue and one pier is red. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
There are six pigs in the muddy pen. Three pigs are pink and three pigs are spotted. The two groups have the same number. Six is more than three.
I see three piggy banks on the shelf. Two piggy banks are pink and one piggy bank is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three piggy banks.
A painter has six pigments in a box. Three pigments are blue and three are red. The two groups have the same number. Six is more than three.
I have two piles of blocks on the floor. One pile has four blocks and the other pile has six blocks. Six is more than four. Altogether, I have ten blocks in my two piles.
Mom put two pills in a small cup. Dad took one pill after breakfast. Two is more than one. In total, they took three pills today.
There are four pillars holding up the big roof. Two pillars are tall and two pillars are short. The tall ones are more than the short ones. In total, four pillars stand strong.
I have two pillows on my bed. One pillow is soft and blue. The other pillow is white. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two pillows to rest my head.
There are four pilots in the big plane. Two pilots sit in the front and two pilots sit in the back. The front and back have the same number of pilots. Four is more than two.
I have six pins on my desk. Three pins are red and three pins are blue. The red and blue pins have the same number. Two pins fell on the floor. Now I have fewer than six pins.
I see four pine trees in the yard. Two pines are tall and two pines are short. The tall ones have more branches than the short ones. In total, there are four pines.
Mom cut a pineapple into eight pieces. I ate three pieces and my dad ate three pieces. We ate the same number. Two pieces are left on the plate. Eight is more than two.
I have two pink blocks and three pink crayons. Three is more than two. In total, I have five pink things.
There are three pioneers in the story. Two pioneers walk ahead and one pioneer follows behind. Two is more than one. Altogether, they explore the new land.
I have three tiny pips in my hand. Two pips are brown and one pip is white. Two is more than one. I will plant them in the soil.
I see four pipes in the yard. Two pipes are long and two pipes are short. The long pipes are more than the short pipes. In total, there are four pipes.
I see two pipes on the ground. One pipe is long and one pipe is short. The long pipe is more than the short pipe in length. Altogether, there are two pipes.
A church has one pipe organ with many big pipes. Two pipes are tall and gold. Three pipes are short and silver. Two is fewer than three. In total, the organ has five pipes.
The workers built two pipelines under the street. One pipeline carries water and one pipeline carries gas. They have the same number of pipelines. Two is more than one.
There are six piranhas in the big tank. Four piranhas have sharp teeth. Two piranhas are smaller than the others. Four is more than two. In total, six piranhas swim together.
I see three pits in the ground. Two pits are deep and one pit is shallow. Two is more than one. In total, there are three pits.
A picture has many tiny pixels. Three pixels are red and two pixels are blue. Five is more than two. In total, five pixels make a small dot.
I have six slices of pizza on my plate. My friend has three slices. Six is more than three. Altogether, we have nine slices of pizza.
There are four places in my room: the bed, the desk, the chair, and the rug. Two places are for sitting and two places are for sleeping. Two is the same as two. In total, four places are in my room.
I see four place values in the number 1234. The first place value is one thousand. The last place value is four ones. One thousand is more than four ones. Altogether, they make the number 1234.
I saw four plaice in the shallow water. Two plaice were small and two were big. The small ones are fewer than the big ones. In total, four plaice swam together.
I see seven planes in the sky. Three planes are big and four planes are small. Four is more than three. Altogether, there are seven planes flying high.
I see four planes in the sky. Two planes are big and two planes are small. The big planes have more windows than the small ones. Altogether, there are four planes flying high.
There are eight planets in our solar system. Four planets are close to the sun and four planets are far away. The two groups have the same number of planets. Earth is one of the eight planets.
Our solar system has eight planets. Four planets are close to the sun and four planets are far away. The two groups have the same number of planets. In total, there are eight planets in our solar system.
I see six tiny plankton in the water. Three plankton are green and three are blue. The two groups have the same number. Six is more than three.
I have six plants in my room. Two plants have big green leaves. Four plants have small leaves. Four is more than two. In total, I have six plants to water.
I have three plant stems in a small cup. Two stems have green leaves. One stem is shorter than the others. The two stems have more leaves than the one stem.
I have three plantains on the table. Mom has two plantains in her bag. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five plantains.
Mom put six plates on the table. Four plates are blue and two plates are white. Four is more than two. In total, there are six plates for dinner.
The knight has two plate armour pieces. One is for the chest and one is for the back. Two is more than one. They keep the knight safe.
I saw four platypuses at the zoo. Two were swimming in the water. Two were resting on the rocks. Two is the same as two. In total, there were four platypuses.
I had a playdate with two friends. Three of us played with blocks. Two is fewer than three. We had fun together.
There are seven players on the field. Four players wear red shirts and three players wear blue shirts. Four is more than three. In total, seven players are ready to play.
There are seven children at the playground. Four children are on the swings and three children are on the slide. Four is more than three. Altogether, there are seven children playing outside.
I see two playhouses in the yard. One playhouse is red and one is blue. They have the same number of windows. Two is more than one.
The playroom has six toys on the shelf. Four toys are cars and two toys are blocks. Four is more than two. In total, there are six toys in the playroom.
We have ten minutes of playtime. Five kids play with blocks and five kids draw pictures. The two groups have the same number of kids. Ten is more than five.
There are two plazas near my school. One plaza has three benches and the other has five benches. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight benches in the two plazas.
I see five stars in the Pleiades cluster. Three stars are bright and two stars are dim. Three is more than two. Altogether, five stars twinkle in the night sky.
I saw four plesiosaurs in the big blue lake. Two plesiosaurs had long necks. Two plesiosaurs had short necks. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there were four plesiosaurs swimming.
The farmer has two plows in the shed. One plow is big and one plow is small. The big plow is more than the small plow in size. Altogether, there are two plows.
I have two plugs in my room. One plug is for the lamp and one plug is for the fan. They are the same number. Two plugs are more than one plug.
I have four plums in my lunch box. Two plums are purple and two plums are red. The purple plums are the same number as the red plums. In total, I have four plums to eat.
There are four plumbers fixing the pipes. Two plumbers work under the sink, and two plumbers work outside. The same number work inside and outside. Four is more than two.
There are five planets in our solar system that are small like Pluto. Pluto is one of them. Four planets are bigger than Pluto. Five is more than four.
I have two pockets on my shirt. One pocket holds a small toy. The other pocket has a red crayon. Two is more than one. In total, I have two pockets.
I wrote two poems today. One poem is about a dog and one poem is about a cat. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two poems to share.
There are three poets in the park. Two poets write poems on paper. One poet reads a book. Two is more than one. Altogether, three poets sit under a tree.
I have three poinsettias in my room. Two poinsettias have red leaves. One poinsettia has pink leaves. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three poinsettias.
I have three points on my paper. My friend has five points. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight points.
A triangle has three points. A square has four points. Four is more than three. In total, they have seven points.
I have two pointers in my hand. One pointer is long and one pointer is short. The long pointer is more than the short one. Altogether, I have two pointers.
There are three polar bears on the ice. Two polar bears are big and one polar bear is small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three polar bears.
I see three stars in the sky. One star is very bright. Two stars are less bright. The bright star is Polaris. Three is more than one.
There are four poles in the playground. Two poles are tall and two poles are short. The tall poles are more than the short ones. In total, there are four poles.
There are four police officers at the park. Two police officers help a lost child. Two police officers watch the cars. Two is the same as two. In total, four police officers keep everyone safe.
A bee carries two tiny grains of pollen on its legs. One grain is yellow and one grain is white. Two is more than one. The pollen helps flowers grow.
Three kids play polo on bikes. Two kids hit the ball with long sticks. One kid watches from the side. Three is more than one. Altogether, four kids are at the polo game.
I drew four polygons on my paper. Two polygons are triangles with three sides. Two polygons are squares with four sides. Four is more than two. In total, I have four shapes.
I have two pomegranates in my lunch box. My friend has three pomegranates. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five pomegranates.
There are three frogs by the pond. Two frogs jump into the water. One frog stays on the rock. Two is more than one. In total, three frogs are near the pond.
I see four ponies in the green field. Two ponies are brown and two ponies are white. The brown ones have the same number as the white ones. In total, there are four ponies eating grass.
There are six pools in the park. Two pools are big and four pools are small. Four is more than two. In total, six pools are full of water.
We have three pool tables in the game room. Two tables are for playing with friends. One table is for practice. Two is more than one.
I saw two poops in the potty. One poop is big and one poop is small. The big one is more than the small one. In total, there are two poops.
I have three bowls of popcorn. One bowl has ten pieces and another bowl has five pieces. Ten is more than five. Altogether, I have fifteen pieces of popcorn.
Mom has two porcelain cups on the shelf. One cup is white and one cup is blue. Two is more than one. They are very pretty and we use them for tea.
I saw four porcupines in the woods. Two porcupines were eating leaves. Two porcupines were sleeping. Two is the same as two. Four is more than two.
Mom cooked two pieces of pork for dinner. I ate one piece and Dad ate one piece. We had the same number of pork pieces. Two is more than one.
I saw six porpoises jump in the sea. Three porpoises swam close to the boat. Three is the same as three. They all splashed water with their tails.
I made six bowls of porridge for breakfast. Three bowls have honey and three bowls have berries. The two kinds have the same number of bowls. Six is more than three.
There are three big ports in our town. Two ports have many boats. One port has fewer boats than the other two. In total, the ports have ten boats.
The porter carried four heavy bags. Two bags were brown and two bags were black. The brown bags are the same number as the black bags. In total, the porter had four bags to carry.
I drew two portraits of my family. One portrait has three people and the other has four people. Four is more than three. In total, I drew seven people in my portraits.
I have two posts in my garden. One post is tall and one post is short. The tall post is more than the short post in height. In total, I have two posts.
I have six postage stamps on my desk. Two stamps are red and four stamps are blue. Four is more than two. In total, I have six stamps to put on letters.
I have six postcards on my desk. Two postcards show a big red flower. Four postcards show a blue ocean. Four is more than two. In total, I have six postcards to send to my friends.
I have three posters on my wall. One poster has a big red car. Two posters have blue fish. Three is more than two. In total, I have three posters.
I saw two postmen walking down the street. One postman carried a big bag. The other postman had fewer letters than the first. In total, they had ten letters to deliver.
Mom has three pots in the kitchen. One pot is big and two pots are small. Three is more than two. In total, she has three pots for cooking soup.
Mom has six potatoes in the bag. She cooked three potatoes for dinner. Three is fewer than six. Two potatoes are still in the bag. One potato is on the counter.
I see two potter's wheels in the art room. One wheel is spinning fast. The other wheel is still. One is fewer than two.
I see three pots on the shelf. Two pots are big and one pot is small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three pots.
There are six chickens in the yard. Four chickens are white and two are brown. Four is more than two. Altogether, they peck at the ground.
I have two pounds of apples. My friend has three pounds of apples. Three is more than two. Altogether we have five pounds.
I have three pound sterling coins in my pocket. My friend has two pound sterling coins. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five pound sterling coins.
There are three power stations near the town. Two power stations make electricity for the houses. One power station is smaller than the other two. Two is more than one. In total, they give light to many homes.
The doctor wrote two prescriptions for me. One is for pink medicine and one is for white pills. Two is more than one. I have two prescriptions in my hand.
I have three presents under the tree. My sister has two presents. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five presents.
The class has two presidents. One president helps with the morning work. The other president helps with the snack time. Two is more than one. Altogether, they help the teacher.
A fox caught three mice for dinner. Two mice are small and one mouse is big. Two is more than one. In total, the fox has three prey to eat.
There are three priests in the church. Two priests wear white robes and one priest wears a black robe. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three priests.
I have three crayons that are primary colors. One is red, one is blue, and one is yellow. Three is more than one. Altogether, they make three bright colors.
There are three primary schools on our street. Two schools have big playgrounds and one school has a small playground. Two is more than one. In total, three schools are near my house.
I saw four primates at the zoo. Two primates were eating bananas. Two primates were climbing trees. Two is the same as two. In total, there were four primates.
Two princesses live in a big castle. One princess has a pink dress. The other princess has a blue dress. Two is more than one. Altogether, they have two crowns.
A printing press has two big rollers. One roller is on top and one roller is on the bottom. They are the same size. Two rollers are fewer than ten.
I see three prisms on the table. One prism is clear and two prisms are blue. Two is more than one. They make tiny rainbows on the wall.
Tom won three prizes at the school fair. He got one prize for the ring toss and two prizes for the bean bag game. Two is more than one. In total, he has three prizes to take home.
The store has ten products on the shelf. Four products are red and six are blue. Six is more than four. In total, there are ten products.
I saw six pronghorns in the field. Two pronghorns were eating grass. Four pronghorns were running fast. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six pronghorns.
The house has five big windows. Three windows are open and two windows are closed. Three is more than two. In total, there are five windows on the house.
The man has two prostheses. One prosthesis is for his left leg. The other is for his right leg. Two is more than one. He walks with them every day.
Mom put two eggs and one glass of milk on the table. Two eggs have more protein than one glass of milk. In total, we have three things with protein.
An atom has eight protons inside its tiny center. Two protons are close together. Eight is more than two. They stay in the nucleus.
There are two psychiatric hospitals in our town. One hospital has three doctors. The other hospital has four doctors. Four is more than three. In total, there are seven doctors.
I saw three pterosaurs in the sky. Two pterosaurs had long wings. One pterosaur was smaller than the others. Three is more than two.
There are three pubs on our street. Two pubs have red doors and one pub has a green door. Two is more than one. In total, three pubs stand in a row.
There are three buses at the stop. Two buses are big and one bus is small. Two is more than one. In total, three buses wait for people.
I see three puddles on the path. Two puddles are big and one puddle is small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three puddles after the rain.
I saw four pufferfish in the big tank. Two pufferfish are round and two are not. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four pufferfish swimming.
I see two pulleys on the big red truck. One pulley is small and one pulley is big. The small pulley has fewer ropes than the big pulley. Altogether, they help lift heavy things.
A doctor checks a pulse on the wrist. Two pulses are strong and fast. One pulse is slower than the other. In total, three pulses are counted.
There are three pumas in the big cage. Two pumas are sleeping, and one puma is walking. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three pumas.
I have two pumps in my toy box. One pump is red and one pump is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two pumps to play with.
I have three pumpkins on the porch. Two pumpkins are big and one pumpkin is small. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three pumpkins.
I saw three pune birds in the park. Two pune birds flew away. One pune bird stayed. One is fewer than three.
I saw three pupas on the leaf. Two pupas are brown and one pupa is green. Two is more than one. They will turn into butterflies soon.
I have two puppets on my hands. One puppet is a dog and one puppet is a cat. They have the same number of eyes. Two puppets can play together.
I see four puppies in the yard. Two puppies are brown and two are white. The brown ones have the same number as the white ones. In total, there are four puppies playing.
I have three purple flowers and two purple crayons. Three is more than two. In total, I have five purple things.
I have three purses on my bed. One purse is red and two purses are blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three purses.
I have four puzzles on my shelf. Two puzzles are big and two puzzles are small. The big puzzles have more pieces than the small ones. Altogether, I have four puzzles to play with.
I have two pyjama sets. One set has blue stripes. The other set has red dots. Two is more than one.
I saw two pyramids in the desert. One pyramid was big and one was small. The big one is more than the small one. In total, there are two pyramids.
I saw three Pyrenees mountains from the car window. Two mountains had snow on top. Three is more than two. They looked big and white.
I have two toy camels from Qatar. My friend has three toy camels. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five toy camels.
I see four sides on a quadrilateral. Two sides are long and two sides are short. The number of long sides is the same as the number of short sides. Four sides in total make a shape.
I have two quarters in my pocket. My friend has three quarters. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five quarters.
I found four pieces of quartz on the path. Two pieces are clear and two pieces are white. The clear ones are the same number as the white ones. Four is more than two.
The queen has two crowns on her head. One crown is gold and one crown is silver. Two is more than one. In total, she has two crowns.
Mom cooked two cups of quinoa for dinner. I ate one cup and my brother ate one cup. We had the same number of quinoa cups. In total, we ate two cups of quinoa.
I have two copies of the Qur'an on my shelf. One is big and one is small. Two is more than one.
I have two toy cars and three toy trucks. Three is more than two. In total, I have five toys.
There are three rabbis in the temple. Two rabbis read from the big book. One rabbi talks to the children. Two is more than one. In total, three rabbis help the people.
I see six rabbits in the garden. Two rabbits are eating carrots. Four rabbits are hopping around. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six rabbits.
I saw six raccoons in the backyard last night. Two raccoons were eating from the trash can. Four raccoons were playing near the tree. Four is more than two. In total, six raccoons were there.
I have two rackets in my bag. One racket is red and one racket is blue. Two is more than one. In total, I have two rackets to play with.
The airport has two big radars. One radar spins fast and one radar spins slow. They are not the same speed. Two is more than one.
I have two radios in my room. One radio plays music and the other radio talks. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two radios.
I see two radio waves in the sky. One radio wave is long and one radio wave is short. The long wave is more than the short wave. They help send music to my radio.
I have three radishes in my garden. Two radishes are big and red. One radish is small. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three radishes.
We have two rafts on the lake. One raft has three kids on it. The other raft has four kids. Four is more than three. Altogether, there are seven kids on the rafts.
I see four rails on the train track. Two rails are long and two rails are short. The long rails are more than the short rails. Altogether, there are four rails.
I see four trains on the tracks. Two trains are red and two trains are blue. They have the same number of wheels. In total, there are four trains moving fast.
I see four railway tracks at the station. Two tracks have trains on them. Two tracks are empty. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four tracks.
I saw seven colors in the rainbow. Red and orange are two colors. Blue and purple are two more colors. Four is fewer than seven. In total, the rainbow has seven beautiful colors.
I have two raincoats. My friend has three raincoats. Three is more than two. Altogether we have five raincoats.
A rainforest has many trees. Five tall trees grow next to three small trees. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight trees in this part of the rainforest.
Dad has two rakes in the shed. One rake is red and one rake is blue. They are the same number. Two is more than one.
There are two ranches near the big hill. One ranch has five cows and the other has three cows. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight cows on the two ranches.
I have six rapeseeds in my hand. Three rapeseeds are round and yellow. Three more rapeseeds are the same as the first three. Altogether, I have six tiny seeds.
There are three rapids in the river. Two rapids are fast and one is slow. Two is more than one. Altogether, they make a loud sound.
I have six raspberries in my bowl. Three raspberries are red and three are green. The red ones are more than the green ones. Altogether, I have six raspberries.
I saw six rats in the old barn. Four rats were eating corn near the hay. Two rats were hiding under a wooden crate. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six rats in the barn.
I have two rattles in my hand. One rattle is red and one rattle is blue. They make a fun sound. Two is more than one.
I saw two rattlesnakes in the desert. One rattlesnake was long and brown. The other rattlesnake was shorter. Two is more than one. They both had rattles on their tails.
I saw four ravens in the tall tree. Two ravens flew away. Now there are two ravens left. Two is fewer than four.
I saw four rays of light coming through the window. Two rays were bright and two rays were soft. The bright rays are more than the soft ones. In total, four rays lit up the room.
There are three readers at the library table. Two readers have big books and one reader has a small book. Two is more than one. In total, three readers sit quietly.
There are two cars in the driveway. One car has a red rear and one car has a blue rear. The two rears are the same size.
I have two recipe cards on the table. One recipe is for cookies and one recipe is for soup. They have the same number of steps.
I have three records in my room. Two records are big and one is small. Two is more than one. They spin around on the player.
I have two recorders in my music class. One recorder is blue and one recorder is red. They are the same number as my friend's recorders. In total, we have four recorders.
We have three balls for recreation at the park. Two balls are red and one ball is blue. Two is more than one. In total, we have three balls to play with.
I drew four rectangles on my paper. Two rectangles are big and two are small. The big ones have the same number of sides as the small ones. Four is more than two.
I have two red blocks and three blue blocks. Three is more than two. In total, I have five blocks.
I see four red algae on the big rock. Two red algae are small and two are big. The small ones are fewer than the big ones. In total, there are four red algae.
A drop of blood has millions of red blood cells. Three red blood cells look like three tiny round things under a lens. Five red blood cells are more than three.
I saw six red deer in the forest. Two red deer had big antlers. Four red deer had no antlers. Four is more than two. In total, six red deer were eating grass.
A red giant is a big star in space. Two red giants shine in the night sky. One red giant is bigger than the other. Three red giants are more than two. In total, there are three red giants.
The red sea has many fish. I saw three red fish and two blue fish. Five is more than three. In total, I saw five fish in the red sea.
I see four red-eared sliders on the big rock. Two sliders are in the water. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there are four sliders.
There are six redwood trees in the park. Three redwoods are tall and three are short. The tall ones have more leaves than the short ones. In total, six redwoods stand together.
I see two reflections in the shiny spoon. One reflection is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. They both show my face.
A baby has a reflex to grab things. One reflex makes the hand close. Two reflexes help the baby hold tight. One is fewer than two.
Our kitchen has one big refrigerator. It holds four apples and two cartons of milk. Four is more than two. In total, there are six items inside the cold refrigerator.
There are four regions on the map. Two regions are green and two regions are blue. The same number of regions are green and blue. In total, four regions make up the whole map.
I saw six reindeer in the snowy field. Two reindeer had big antlers. Four reindeer were eating grass. Four is more than two. In total, six reindeer stood in the cold.
I saw three old relics in the museum. Two relics are from a long time ago. One relic is a shiny coin. Two is more than one. In total, there are three relics in the glass case.
I see three remoras near the big shark. Two remoras swim close to its belly. One remora stays near the tail. Three is more than one. They all stick to the shark for a ride.
I have two remotes on the table. One remote is for the TV and one remote is for the fan. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I have two remote controls on the table. One remote is black and one remote is gray. They have the same number of buttons. Two is more than one.
I have three renminbi notes in my pocket. My friend has two renminbi notes. Three is more than two. Altogether we have five renminbi notes.
I saw six reptiles at the zoo. Two reptiles were turtles and four reptiles were lizards. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six reptiles in the big glass tank.
A pond has two small reservoirs. One reservoir has three ducks. The other reservoir has five ducks. Five is more than three. Altogether, there are eight ducks.
A person has one respiratory system. It has two lungs and one nose. Two is more than one. The lungs help us breathe air in and out.
I saw two resplendent quetzals in the tree. One quetzal has a long green tail. The other quetzal has a red belly. Two is more than one. They are very pretty birds.
There are three restaurants on our street. Two restaurants have red doors and one has a blue door. Two is more than one. In total, three restaurants are open for lunch.
Rex has two big paws and one wet nose. He has more paws than noses.
I saw two rheas at the zoo. They are big birds with long legs. One rhea was eating leaves. Two is more than one.
I saw two rhinoceroses at the zoo. They were big and gray. One rhinoceros had a horn. Two is more than one.
I see three rhododendrons in the garden. Two have pink flowers and one has white flowers. Two is more than one. They are pretty in the sun.
I know two rhymes about a little star. My friend knows three rhymes about a cat. Three is more than two. Altogether, we know five rhymes.
A person has twenty-four ribs in total. Twelve ribs are on the left side and twelve ribs are on the right side. The two sides have the same number of ribs. Twelve is more than two.
I have three ribbons in my hair. One ribbon is red and two ribbons are blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three pretty ribbons.
I see four rickshaws on the street. Two rickshaws are red and two are green. They have the same number of wheels. In total, there are four rickshaws waiting.
Dad has two rifles in the safe. One rifle is long and one rifle is short. Two is more than one. They are kept away from children.
Rigel is a star in the sky. I can see one Rigel at night. There are many stars, but Rigel is just one. One is fewer than ten.
A square has four right angles. Two right angles make a straight line. Four is more than two.
I have three rings on my fingers. My friend has five rings. Five is more than three. In total, we have eight rings.
I see three rivers near my house. One river is big and two rivers are small. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three rivers.
I see two river deltas in the picture. One delta has three small islands. The other delta has five small islands. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight islands in the two deltas.
I have six rivets in my hand. Two rivets are big and four rivets are small. Four is more than two. They are all shiny and silver.
There are two big parks in Riyadh. One park has more trees than the other. Three children play on the swings in the first park.
I see two roads near my house. One road has three cars on it. The other road has fewer cars, only one. Two is more than one.
The lion let out two big roars. One roar was loud and one roar was soft. Two is more than one.
I have two robes in my closet. One robe is blue and one robe is red. I have the same number of each color. Two robes are fewer than three robes.
I have three robots on my shelf. Two robots are red and one robot is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three robots to play with.
I found six rocks in the garden. Four rocks are gray and two rocks are white. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six rocks in my bucket.
I found six rocks in the garden. Four rocks are gray and two rocks are white. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six rocks in my hand.
I saw six rock doves on the sidewalk. Four rock doves were eating crumbs. Two rock doves were watching. Four is more than two. In total, six rock doves were there.
I see two rockets on the launch pad. One rocket is tall and red. The other rocket is small and blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are two rockets ready to fly.
A rocket has two engines. One engine is big and one engine is small. The big engine is more powerful than the small one. In total, there are two engines on the rocket.
There are five tall peaks in the Rocky Mountains. Three peaks have snow on top. Two peaks are rocky and brown. Three is more than two. In total, five peaks stand high in the sky.
I see three rodents in the garden. Two rodents are brown and one rodent is gray. Two is more than one. They are looking for food.
At the rodeo, I saw five horses run fast. Three cowboys rode on them. Two cowboys fell off. Three is more than two. In total, five horses were in the ring.
There are six Roma people in the big tent. Two are children and four are adults. Four is more than two. In total, they have six people living together.
I have two roman coins in my pocket. My friend has three roman coins. Three is more than two. Altogether we have five roman coins.
I have three roman numerals on my paper. One is I and two are V. Three is more than one.
I have two friends from Romania. They told me about four big mountains in their country. Two is fewer than four.
There are seven hills in Rome. Three hills are big and four hills are small. Four is more than three. In total, seven hills make Rome a hilly city.
The house has one big roof. Two small roofs are on the shed. One is fewer than two.
Our classroom has one big room for all of us. There are four small rooms next to it. One is fewer than four. In total, we have five rooms in our school.
I see six roots under the big tree. Three roots are long and three roots are short. The long roots have the same number as the short roots.
I see two ropes on the ground. One rope is long and the other rope is short. The long rope is more than the short rope. In total, there are two ropes.
I have six roses in my garden. Three roses are red and three roses are pink. The red and pink roses have the same number. Two roses have tiny bugs on them.
I saw two rosetta stones at the museum. One stone has many old marks. The other stone is the same size. Two is more than one.
There are six rows of chairs in the room. Two rows are empty and four rows have children sitting. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six rows.
I have three rubber bands on my desk. Two are red and one is blue. Two is more than one. In total, I have three rubber bands.
I have two rubies in my hand. One ruby is red and one ruby is small. Two is more than one. They are pretty stones.
I see two rugs on the floor. One rug is big and one rug is small. The big rug is more than the small rug. In total, there are two rugs.
I have two rulers on my desk. One ruler is long and one ruler is short. The long ruler is more than the short one. Altogether, I have two rulers.
I heard two loud rumbles from the big truck. Then three small rumbles came from the little car. Two is fewer than three. In total, there were five rumbles.
I found three runes in the sandbox. Two runes have a straight line and one has a circle. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three runes to show my friend.
I saw six runners on the track. Two runners wore blue shirts and four runners wore red shirts. Four is more than two. In total, six runners ran fast.
I have two toy bears from Russia. My friend has three toy bears from Russia. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five toy bears.
Mom bought three rutabagas at the store. Two rutabagas are big and one is small. Two is more than one. In total, we have three rutabagas for dinner.
I have three rye plants in my garden. Two rye plants are tall and green. One rye plant is shorter. Two is more than one. In total, I have three rye plants.
I see two saddles on the fence. One saddle is brown and one saddle is black. They have the same number of straps. Two is more than one.
I have two safe places in my room. One is under my bed and one is in my closet. Two is more than one.
Mom put two pinches of saffron in the rice. One pinch has more threads than the other. In total, we have three tiny threads of saffron.
The Sahara is a big desert. Five camels walk on the sand. Two camels are brown and three camels are white. Three is more than two. In total, five camels cross the hot Sahara.
We saw three sailboats on the blue lake. Two sailboats had white sails and one sailboat had a red sail. Two is more than one. Altogether, three sailboats moved with the wind.
I see two sailing ships on the blue water. One ship has three white sails. The other ship has four white sails. Four is more than three. In total, there are seven sails on the two ships.
There are three saints in the old painting. Two saints wear golden rings. One saint has a blue robe. Two is more than one. In total, three saints smile at us.
There are two pictures of Saint George in my book. One shows him on a horse with a long spear. The other shows him with a big red cross on a white flag. Two is more than one.
Five boats float on the Saint Lawrence River. Three boats are big and two boats are small. Three is more than two. In total, five boats are on the water.
I saw two Saint Nicholas dolls on the shelf. One doll has a red hat and one doll has a blue hat. They have the same number of buttons. Two is more than one.
There are two statues of Saint Peter in the church. One statue holds a key and the other holds a book. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I made a big salad with six tomatoes and four cucumbers. Six is more than four. In total, the salad has ten pieces of vegetables.
I saw four salamanders near the pond. Two salamanders were green and two were brown. The green ones have the same number as the brown ones. Four is more than two.
I see three salmon swimming in the river. Two salmon are big and one salmon is small. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three salmon.
Sam has two red cars and three blue cars. Five is more than two. In total, Sam has five cars.
I saw two samurai in the park. One samurai had a shiny sword. The other samurai had a helmet. Two is more than one. They stood still like statues.
I have two sandals on my feet. One sandal is blue and one sandal is red. They are not the same color. Two is more than one.
I have two sandboxes in my yard. One sandbox has three toys in it. The other sandbox has five toys. Five is more than three. Altogether, there are eight toys in the sandboxes.
I made three sandcastles at the beach. My friend made two sandcastles. Three is more than two. Altogether, we made five sandcastles.
We built five sandcastles at the beach. Three sandcastles have tall towers. Two sandcastles have small flags. Three is more than two. In total, we have five sandcastles.
I see three sandpipers on the beach. Two sandpipers run fast to the water. One sandpiper stays still. Two is more than one. Altogether, three sandpipers look for food.
Mom made six sandwiches for lunch. I ate two sandwiches and my brother ate two sandwiches. We ate the same number. Two sandwiches are left on the plate. Six is more than two.
There are two Santas at the mall today. One Santa has a big white beard. The other Santa has a red hat. Two is more than one.
I have three sapphires in my hand. Two sapphires are blue and one is purple. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three shiny sapphires.
Sarah has two red crayons and three blue crayons. She has more blue crayons than red crayons. In total, she has five crayons.
I see six sardines in the blue ocean. Four sardines swim fast together. Two sardines swim alone. Four is more than two. Altogether, six sardines are in the water.
I see two satellites in the night sky. One satellite is bright and one is dim. The bright one is more than the dim one. They both move slowly across the dark sky.
Saturn has seven rings around it. Three rings are big and bright. Four rings are small and thin. Seven is more than four. In total, Saturn has seven rings.
I have two sauces on my plate. One sauce is red and one sauce is white. Two is more than one. They are for my chicken nuggets.
There are two saunas in the park. One sauna is big and one sauna is small. The big sauna has more benches than the small sauna. In total, they have ten benches.
I saw two sauropods at the museum. They had long necks and big bodies. One sauropod was taller than the other. Two is more than one.
I have six sausages on my plate. I eat two sausages. Four sausages are left. Four is more than two. In total, I had six sausages.
I saw two saws in the tool shed. One saw is big and one saw is small. They are not the same size. Two is more than one.
I saw two sawfish at the aquarium. One sawfish has a long nose with teeth. Two sawfish are more than one. They swim slowly in the big tank.
I see two saxophones in the music room. One saxophone is big and gold. The other saxophone is small and silver. Two is more than one. They make loud sounds together.
I see two scaffolds at the building site. One scaffold is tall and one scaffold is short. The tall one has more parts than the short one. Altogether, there are two scaffolds.
I have two scales in my toy kitchen. One scale is red and one scale is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two scales to weigh my play food.
I played five notes on the piano scale. Three notes were high and two notes were low. Three is more than two. In total, I played five notes.
A fish has two scales on its side. One scale is big and one scale is small. Two is more than one. In total, the fish has many scales on its body.
I have two scale models on my shelf. One is a red car and one is a blue truck. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I see four scallops in the sand. Two scallops are open and two are closed. The same number are open and closed. Four scallops are in total.
I have two scars on my knee. One scar is big and one scar is small. The big scar is more than the small scar. In total, I have two scars.
I have two scarves. One scarf is red and one scarf is blue. Two is more than one. They keep my neck warm.
There are five schools on this street. Two schools are big and three schools are small. Three is more than two. In total, five schools have many children.
I have three science books on my shelf. My friend has two science books. Three is more than two. In total, we have five science books.
There are six scientists in the lab. Four scientists wear white coats. Two scientists wear glasses. Four is more than two. In total, six scientists work together.
I have two scissors in my desk. One scissor is blue and one is green. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I have two pairs of scissors. One pair is red and one pair is blue. They are the same number of scissors. Two is more than one.
I see three scooters in the park. Two scooters are red and one scooter is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three scooters.
I saw four scorpions under a big rock. Two scorpions were small and two were big. The small ones are fewer than the big ones. In total, there are four scorpions.
I see two screens in the room. One screen is big and one screen is small. The big screen is more than the small one. They both show bright pictures.
I have six screws on my desk. Two screws are long and four screws are short. Four is more than two. In total, I have six screws to fix the toy.
I have two scrolls on my desk. One scroll has a map and one scroll has a story. They have the same number of pictures. Two is more than one.
I saw three sculptures in the park. Two sculptures are made of stone and one is made of metal. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three sculptures to look at.
I saw four sea cucumbers in the tide pool. Two sea cucumbers are long and brown. Two sea cucumbers are short and bumpy. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four sea cucumbers in the pool.
I see four sea otters floating on their backs. Two sea otters hold rocks to crack shells. Two sea otters have the same number of rocks. Four is more than two.
I saw two sea snakes in the water. One sea snake was long and green. The other sea snake was short and black. Two is more than one. They swam away fast.
I saw four sea turtles at the beach. Two sea turtles swam in the water. Two sea turtles sat on the sand. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there were four sea turtles.
I saw four sea urchins in the tide pool. Two sea urchins are purple and two are green. The purple ones have the same number as the green ones. Four is more than two.
Five seabirds sit on the big rock. Two seabirds fly away. Three seabirds stay on the rock. Three is more than two. Altogether, there are five seabirds.
I have three pieces of seafood on my plate. Two are shrimp and one is a small piece of fish. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three pieces of seafood for lunch.
I saw four seahorses in the tank. Two seahorses are yellow and two are orange. They have the same number. Four is more than two.
I saw six seals at the beach. Two seals were sleeping on the sand. Four seals were swimming in the water. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six seals.
I see two search engines on the computer screen. One search engine has a blue icon. The other search engine has a red icon. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are two search engines.
There are six seats at the table. Four seats have red cushions and two seats have blue cushions. Four is more than two. In total, six seats are ready for the party.
I have been to Seattle two times. My friend has been there one time. Two is more than one. Seattle has many tall buildings.
I see three pieces of seaweed on the beach. Two pieces are green and one piece is brown. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three pieces of seaweed.
I have two hands. Each hand has one thumb. That makes two thumbs in total. Two is more than one.
I saw two secretarybirds in the tall grass. One bird had a long feather on its head. Two is more than one. They walked slowly on their long legs.
I see two jars of sediment. One jar has more sand than the other. The first jar has four layers of sand and mud. The second jar has two layers. Four is more than two.
I found three sedimentary rocks near the river. Two rocks have tiny layers like a stack of paper. One rock is smooth and flat. Three is more than one. They are fun to hold and look at.
I have six seeds in my hand. Three seeds are big and three seeds are small. The big seeds and small seeds have the same number. I will plant all six seeds in the garden.
There are two seesaws in the park. One seesaw has two children on it. The other seesaw has no children. Two is more than zero. Altogether, there are two seesaws.
There are three sellers at the market. One seller has red apples and two sellers have yellow apples. Two is more than one. In total, they sell fruit to many people.
There are three Senegal rivers in the story. Two rivers are long and one river is short. Two is more than one. In total, they flow to the sea.
I have five senses in total. I use two senses to see and hear. Three senses are for touch, taste, and smell. Five is more than two.
I wrote three sentences on my paper. My friend wrote five sentences. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight sentences.
I see four blocks in a row. Two red blocks come first, then two blue blocks. The red blocks are fewer than the blue blocks. They make a short sequence.
I saw two lions in the Serengeti. Then I saw three zebras. Three is more than two. Altogether, I saw five animals.
I have three sesame seeds on my plate. Two seeds are tiny and white. One seed is brown. Three is more than one.
I have four red cups and two blue cups. Four is more than two. In total, I have six cups in my set.
I see two sewing machines in the room. One sewing machine is red and one is blue. They have the same number of buttons. Two is more than one.
Dad has one sextant on the shelf. He shows me two sextants in a book. Two is more than one. They are old tools for sailing.
I see two shades under the big tree. One shade is cool and dark. The other shade is light and small. Two shades are more than one shade. Altogether, they make a nice spot to sit.
I see two shadows on the wall. One shadow is big and one shadow is small. The big shadow is more than the small shadow. In total, there are two shadows.
A shaman has two drums and one rattle. The shaman uses them for songs. Two is more than one.
I drew four shapes on my paper. Two shapes are circles and two shapes are squares. The same number of circles and squares. Four shapes in total.
I see three sharks in the big blue tank. Two sharks are gray and one shark is white. Two is more than one. They swim fast in the water.
There are three sheds in the yard. One shed is red and two sheds are blue. Two is more than one. In total, there are three sheds.
I see six sheep in the green field. Three sheep are eating grass and three sheep are resting. The two groups have the same number. Six is more than three.
I have three sheets of paper on my desk. Two sheets are white and one sheet is blue. Two is more than one. In total, I have three sheets to draw on.
I have two shelves in my room. One shelf has three books. The other shelf has five books. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight books on the shelves.
I found six shells on the beach. Two shells are white and four shells are pink. Four is more than two. In total, I have six shells in my bucket.
I have two shields in my toy box. One shield is red and one shield is blue. They are the same size.
I have six shiitake mushrooms on my plate. Two shiitake are big and four are small. Four is more than two. In total, I have six shiitake to eat.
I have two shins on my legs. One shin is on the left leg and one shin is on the right leg. They are the same number.
I saw three shinkansen at the station. Two shinkansen are white and blue. One shinkansen is green. Two is more than one. In total, three shinkansen are ready to go.
I see three big ships in the blue water. Two ships are white and one ship is red. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three ships sailing.
I have five shirts in my closet. Three shirts are blue and two shirts are red. Three is more than two. In total, I have five shirts to wear.
I have two shoes on my feet. One shoe is blue and one shoe is red. They are the same number as my feet. Two is more than one.
I saw two shoebills at the zoo. One shoebill stood on one leg. The other shoebill had a big beak. Two is more than one.
There are three shops on our street. Two shops sell toys and one shop sells food. Two is more than one. In total, there are three shops to visit.
There are three shopkeepers in the small store. Two shopkeepers help people buy food. One shopkeeper counts the money. Two is more than one. In total, three shopkeepers work together.
Two birds sit on the shore. Three more birds join them. Five birds in total on the sand. Five is more than two.
I read two short stories at school. My friend read three short stories. Three is more than two. Altogether, we read five short stories.
The doctor gave me one shot in my arm. My friend got two shots. Two is more than one. We both felt brave after our shots.
I have two shoulders. One shoulder is on the left and one shoulder is on the right. They are the same number. Two shoulders help me carry a bag.
I have two shovels in the sandbox. One shovel is red and one shovel is blue. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I see two showers in the big bathroom. One shower is for the kids and one shower is for the grown-ups. They have the same number of handles. Two is more than one.
I saw three shrews in the garden. Two shrews were digging in the dirt. One shrew was hiding under a leaf. Two is more than one. Three shrews are very small and fast.
I saw two shrikes on the fence. One shrike had a bug. The other shrike had a berry. Two is more than one.
I see six shrimp in the tank. Two shrimp are hiding under a rock. Four shrimp are swimming near the glass. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six shrimp.
I see three shrubs by the fence. Two shrubs have green leaves. One shrub has yellow flowers. Two is more than one.
There are three Siamese cats in the house. Two cats are sleeping on the couch. One cat is playing with a toy. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three Siamese cats.
I have two siblings. One sibling is my brother and one is my sister. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have three kids in my family.
I visited two sichuan restaurants with my family. One restaurant had spicy food and the other had mild food. The spicy one had more customers than the mild one. In total, we tried three dishes.
I saw three sickles in the old barn. Two sickles have wooden handles. One sickle has a metal handle. Two is more than one. In total, there are three sickles.
A square has four sides. A triangle has three sides. Four is more than three. In total, a square and a triangle have seven sides.
I see four sidewalk squares near the big tree. Two squares have cracks and two squares are smooth. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four squares on the sidewalk.
I have two eyes for sight. My dog has two eyes too. We have the same number of eyes for seeing.
I see three signs on the road. One sign is red and two signs are blue. Two is more than one. They tell cars where to go.
I see two red signals on the street. One signal says stop and one says go. They are the same number of lights. Two is more than one.
I have six silkworms in a box. Two silkworms are eating a big leaf. Four silkworms are resting on the side. Four is more than two. In total, I have six silkworms.
A farm has two tall silos. One silo is full of corn. The other silo has the same number of grains. Two silos are more than one silo.
I have two silver spoons. My friend has three silver spoons. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five silver spoons.
I have two simple toys. My friend has three simple toys. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five simple toys.
A seesaw is a simple machine. Two kids sit on it. One goes up and one goes down. That is the same number of kids on each side.
There are three singers on the stage. Two singers have red dresses. One singer has a blue dress. Two is more than one. In total, three singers sing a happy song.
I have one single crayon in my hand. My friend has three crayons. Three is more than one. Altogether, we have four crayons.
I have two sinks in my kitchen. One sink is big and one sink is small. The big sink is more than the small sink. In total, there are two sinks.
I heard two sirens on the street. One siren was loud and one siren was soft. Two is more than one.
I see two bright stars in the sky. One star is Sirius and the other is a smaller star. Sirius is brighter than the other star. Two stars are more than one star.
I have two sisters. One sister is tall and one sister is small. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two sisters.
We visited three sites in the park. One site had a big tree and two sites had small benches. Three is more than one. Altogether, we saw three nice places.
I saw six skates in the big tank at the aquarium. Two skates were resting on the sand at the bottom. Four skates were swimming slowly near the glass. Four is more than two. In total, there were six skates in the tank.
A skeleton has two hundred six bones in total. The skull has twenty-two bones. That is more than the ten bones in the hands. The spine has thirty-three bones, which is fewer than the skull.
I have two skills in drawing. My friend has three skills in drawing. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five skills.
I have two hands with skin on them. My face has skin too. The skin on my hands is more than the skin on my nose. In total, I have skin all over my body.
I saw four skinks on the sunny rock. Two skinks were green and two were brown. The green ones have the same number as the brown ones. Four skinks in total ran away fast.
Mom has three skirts in her closet. One skirt is blue and two skirts are red. Two is more than one. In total, she has three skirts to wear.
A skeleton has one skull on top. Two eyes sit inside the skull. The skull has more than ten teeth. The teeth are white and small.
I saw three skunks in the garden. Two skunks had white stripes. One skunk was smaller than the others. Three is more than one.
There are three skyscrapers in the city. Two skyscrapers are tall and one is taller. Two is more than one. They have many windows.
I found three smooth slates by the pond. Two slates are gray and one slate is black. Three is more than two. They are flat and nice to draw on.
I see two sleds on the snowy hill. One sled is red and one sled is blue. They have the same number of sleds. Two is more than one.
I have two sleeves on my shirt. One sleeve is long and one sleeve is short. They are not the same length. Two is more than one.
There are four slides at the park. Two slides are tall and two slides are short. The tall slides are more than the short slides? No, they are the same number. In total, four slides are fun to play on.
I saw two slime moulds on the log. One slime mould is yellow and one is white. Two is more than one. They are both very small.
There are three slings on the shelf. Two slings are made of leather. One sling is made of rope. Two is more than one. In total, there are three slings.
Tom has two slingshots. He has one red slingshot and one blue slingshot. They are the same number. In total, he has two slingshots.
I see three sloths hanging from a tree branch. Two sloths are sleeping and one sloth is eating a leaf. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three sloths in the tree.
I saw two slow lorises in the tree. One slow loris was eating a fruit. The other slow loris was sleeping. Two is more than one.
A person has one small intestine inside their body. The small intestine is long and twisty. Two small intestines would be too many for one person. One is fewer than two.
Dad has two smartphones in his bag. One smartphone is black and one is white. Two is more than one. They both have bright screens.
I have four smis on my desk. Two smis are red and two smis are blue. The red ones are the same number as the blue ones.
Dad got three sms on his phone. I got one sms from Mom. Three is more than one. Altogether, we have four sms.
I have six snacks in my lunchbox. Two snacks are crackers and four snacks are fruit bars. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six snacks to share with my friend.
I see four snails in the garden. Two snails have shells with stripes. Two snails have plain brown shells. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there are four snails.
I saw six snakes at the zoo. Two snakes were green and four snakes were brown. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six snakes in the big glass tank.
There are three snow leopards on the rocky mountain. Two snow leopards are white with black spots. One snow leopard is smaller than the others. Two is more than one. In total, three snow leopards rest in the sun.
I made three snowballs in the yard. My friend made five snowballs. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight snowballs to throw.
I made two snowmen in the yard. One snowman has a red hat. The other snowman has a blue scarf. Two is more than one. They stand together in the cold.
I have three bars of soap in the bathroom. Two bars are blue and one bar is white. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three bars of soap.
I have six socks in my drawer. Three socks are blue and three socks are red. They have the same number. Two socks are missing. Six is more than two.
I have two cans of soda. My friend has three cans of soda. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five cans of soda.
We have two sofas in the living room. One sofa is big and blue. The other sofa is small and green. The big sofa has more cushions than the small one. In total, there are six cushions on the two sofas.
I have three soft drinks in my lunchbox. My friend has two soft drinks. Three is more than two. In total, we have five soft drinks.
I have two softballs in my bag. My friend has three softballs. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five softballs.
Our solar system has eight planets. Four planets are close to the sun and four planets are far away. The two groups have the same number of planets. In total, there are eight planets in our solar system.
I see six soldiers standing in a row. Two soldiers have red hats. Four soldiers have blue hats. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six soldiers.
I have three solid blocks on my desk. Two blocks are red and one block is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three solid blocks to stack.
I have three something toys. My friend has five something toys. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight something toys.
I looked for my toy in four places. Two places were under the bed and two places were on the shelf. That is the same number. In total, I looked in four places.
A mother has two sons. One son is tall and one son is small. The two sons have the same number of toys. Two is more than one.
The submarine has one sonar to find fish. Two sonars are more than one. They help the ship see underwater.
We sang two songs at circle time. Then we sang three more songs. Five songs in total is more than two.
Five songbirds sit on a wire. Three are brown and two are yellow. Three is more than two. They sing together in the morning.
I see five sorghum plants in the garden. Two plants are tall and three plants are short. Three is more than two. Altogether, there are five sorghum plants.
I heard four loud sounds from the kitchen. Two sounds were from a pot and two sounds were from a spoon. The number of pot sounds is the same as the spoon sounds. Four sounds in total made me jump.
Mom made six bowls of soup for dinner. I ate two bowls and Dad ate two bowls. We ate the same number. Two bowls are left on the stove. Six is more than two.
There are two big islands in New Zealand. One is the South Island and one is the North Island. They have the same number of big islands. The South Island has many mountains.
There are two penguins at the south pole. One penguin is big and one is small. They are the same number as the two flags in the snow.
I found six sow bugs under the big rock. Three sow bugs are small and three are big. The small ones are fewer than the big ones. In total, six sow bugs crawl away.
I have two cartons of soy milk. My friend has three cartons. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five cartons of soy milk.
I have six soybeans in my hand. Two soybeans are green and four are yellow. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six soybeans.
Three Soyuz spacecraft are at the space station. Two Soyuz are docked on the left side. One Soyuz is on the right side. Two is more than one. In total, there are three Soyuz.
I see two big spaces in the puzzle. One space is for a square piece. The other space is for a round piece. Two is more than one.
I saw two space shuttles at the museum. One shuttle is big and white. The other shuttle is smaller. Two is more than one. They are both very cool.
There are two space stations in the sky. One space station is big and one is small. The big one has more rooms than the small one. In total, they have ten rooms.
I see two spacecraft in the sky. One spacecraft is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. Altogether, there are two spacecraft.
I saw two toy rockets in my book. One rocket went up high. Two is more than one. Altogether, they flew to the moon.
I see two spaceships in the sky. One spaceship is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. They fly very fast.
I have two spades in my sandbox. One spade is red and one spade is blue. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I have two friends from Spain. They have three flags in their room. Two is fewer than three.
I see three clumps of spanish moss on the tree branch. Two clumps are big and one clump is small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three clumps of spanish moss.
I see six sparrows on the fence. Four sparrows are eating seeds. Two sparrows are singing. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six sparrows.
I saw two sparrowhawks in the tree. One sparrowhawk flew away. Now there is one left. One is fewer than two.
The room has six speakers on the wall. Two speakers are big and four speakers are small. Four is more than two. Altogether, they make loud music.
The hunter has three spears. Two spears are long and one spear is short. Two is more than one. He holds them tight.
There are five species of birds in the park. Three species have blue feathers and two species have red feathers. Three is more than two. In total, five species live near the pond.
There are four speed skaters on the ice. Two skaters wear blue and two wear red. The two groups have the same number of skaters. In total, four skaters race fast.
I saw two sperm whales in the big blue ocean. One whale was very long. Two is more than one. They swam together in the deep water.
I have two spheres in my hand. One sphere is red and one sphere is blue. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I saw two sphinx statues at the museum. One sphinx had a lion body and a human head. The other sphinx had a broken nose. Two is more than one.
Mom has three jars of spice on the shelf. One jar has red spice and two jars have yellow spice. Two is more than one. In total, there are three jars of spice in the kitchen.
I see six spiders on the wall. Four spiders are small and two spiders are big. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six spiders crawling.
I saw three spider monkeys at the zoo. Two spider monkeys swung on a branch. One spider monkey ate a banana. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three spider monkeys.
I have three spinach leaves on my plate. My friend has two spinach leaves. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five spinach leaves.
A person has one spinal cord inside the back. It is long and thin. Two arms and two legs send messages through it. The spinal cord is more than one part of the body.
I have one spine in my back. A cat has one spine too. We have the same number of spines.
I see two spiral galaxies in the big picture. One spiral galaxy is big and bright. The other spiral galaxy is small and dim. The big one has more stars than the small one. In total, there are two spiral galaxies.
A person has one spleen inside the body. The spleen is a small organ. Two spleens are fewer than one spleen. In total, a person has one spleen.
I have three sponges in the kitchen. One sponge is yellow and two sponges are blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three sponges to clean the dishes.
I have three sponges in the kitchen. Two sponges are yellow and one sponge is green. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three sponges to clean the dishes.
Mom put six spoons on the table. Three spoons are big and three spoons are small. The big spoons have the same number as the small spoons. In total, there are six spoons for dinner.
I see three kids playing a sport. Two kids have a ball and one kid runs fast. Two is more than one. Altogether, three kids play the sport.
I see four spots on the dog's back. Two spots are big and two spots are small. The big spots are more than the small spots. In total, there are four spots on the dog.
I have two spreadsheets on my desk. One has four rows and the other has six rows. Six is more than four. In total, they have ten rows.
I have two springs in my toy box. One spring is long and one spring is short. The long spring has more coils than the short spring. In total, I have two springs to play with.
I saw six springtails jump in the dirt. Four springtails are very small and two are bigger. Four is more than two. They all hop away fast.
I see three spruce trees in the yard. Two spruce trees are tall, and one spruce tree is short. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three spruce trees.
I drew four squares on the paper. Two squares are big and two squares are small. The big squares have the same number as the small squares. Four is more than two.
I have three squash in my garden. Two are yellow and one is green. Two is more than one. In total, I have three squash.
I have two squash rackets. My friend has three squash rackets. Three is more than two. In total, we have five rackets.
I heard three squeaks from the little mouse. Two squeaks were loud and one was soft. Two is more than one. In total, I heard three squeaks.
I saw six squid in the big tank at the aquarium. Two squid were small and four squid were big. Four is more than two. In total, there were six squid swimming around.
I see six squirrels in the park. Two squirrels are eating nuts. Four squirrels are running up a tree. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six squirrels playing.
I have two squishy toys. One is red and one is blue. The red one is more squishy than the blue one. Altogether, I have two squishy toys.
There are three horses in the stable. Two horses are brown and one horse is white. Two is more than one. In total, there are three horses in the stable.
I have three stacks of blocks. One stack has four blocks and another stack has two blocks. Four is more than two. The third stack has three blocks, which is fewer than four.
There are two big stadiums in our town. One stadium has four gates and the other has three gates. Four is more than three. In total, they have seven gates.
The school play has a big stage. Four kids stand on the stage. Two kids have red hats. Two kids have blue hats. The same number of kids wear red and blue. In total, four kids are on the stage.
The school play has one big stage. Two children stand on the stage. Three more children wait behind the curtain. Five children in total are on or near the stage. Five is more than two.
There are ten stairs in the house. I climbed three stairs and then two more. Five stairs is fewer than ten. In total, I climbed five stairs.
There are ten stairs leading up to the door. I climbed four stairs and then stopped. I have six more stairs to go. Six is more than four. In total, I will climb ten stairs.
I have six stamps in my book. Two stamps are red and four stamps are blue. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six stamps to stick on letters.
I see six stars in the dark sky. Three stars are very bright and three stars are small. The bright stars are the same number as the small stars. Six is more than three.
I see four star clusters in the dark sky. Two star clusters are big and bright. Two star clusters are small and dim. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four star clusters.
A star system has one big star and three small planets. The star is bigger than the planets. In total, there are four things in the star system.
Mom put two spoonfuls of starch in the soup. One spoonful is more than the other. In total, there are two spoonfuls of starch.
I saw six starfish on the sandy beach. Three starfish were orange and three were purple. The two colors had the same number. Six is more than three.
I saw six starlings on the fence. Three starlings flew away. Now three starlings are left. Three is fewer than six.
There are two trains at the station. One train is red and one train is blue. Two is more than one.
I see three statues in the park. Two statues are tall and one statue is short. Two is more than one. They stand still all day.
I saw two statues of liberty in the park. One is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. They stand on green grass.
I see two steam engines at the train show. One steam engine is big and black. The other steam engine is small and red. The big one has more wheels than the small one. Altogether, they have ten wheels.
I saw two steam locomotives at the train station. One steam locomotive is big and black. The other steam locomotive is smaller. Two is more than one. They both puff white smoke.
I saw three steamboats on the river. Two steamboats were big and one was small. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three steamboats.
I see two stegosaurus at the park. One has four legs and a long tail. The other has the same number of legs. Two is more than one.
I see six stems in the garden. Two stems have green leaves. Four stems have flowers. Four is more than two. In total, there are six stems.
My friend has two stepfamilies. One stepfamily has three kids and the other has two kids. Three is more than two. In total, there are five kids in both stepfamilies.
My stepmother has two children from before. She has one child with my dad. In total, she has three children. Two is more than one.
The doctor has two stethoscopes on her desk. One stethoscope is blue and one is gray. She has the same number of blue and gray stethoscopes. Two is more than one.
I found six sticks in the park. Three sticks are long and three sticks are short. The long ones are more than the short ones? No, they are the same number. In total, I have six sticks to play with.
I see three stick insects on the green leaf. Two are long and brown. One is shorter. Two is more than one. They look just like tiny sticks.
I have six stickers on my hand. Two stickers are stars and four stickers are circles. Four is more than two. In total, I have six stickers to share.
I saw five sticklebacks in the pond. Three sticklebacks are small and two are big. Three is more than two. They swim together in the water.
I saw four stingrays at the aquarium. Two stingrays were big and two were small. The big ones are more than the small ones. In total, there are four stingrays swimming in the tank.
I saw two stoats in the garden. One stoat was brown and one stoat was white. The brown stoat is bigger than the white one. Two is more than one.
I have two toy cars from Stockholm. My friend has three toy cars from there. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five toy cars.
I have three stockings on the bed. One stocking is red and two stockings are blue. Two is more than one. In total, I have three stockings.
A person has one stomach inside their body. Some animals have four stomachs. One is fewer than four.
I found six stones in the garden. Four stones are smooth and two stones are rough. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six stones in my hand.
Stonehenge has many big stones. I see five tall stones standing up. Three stones fell down long ago. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight stones in a circle.
I see three stools in the kitchen. Two stools are tall and one stool is short. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three stools.
The store has ten apples on the shelf. I see four red apples and six green apples. Six is more than four. In total, there are ten apples at the store.
I saw four storks by the pond. Two storks had long legs and two storks had fish in their beaks. Two is the same as two. In total, there were four storks standing still.
We saw two big storms last week. One storm had lots of rain. The other storm had more thunder. Two storms are more than one storm.
I have three story books on my shelf. My friend has two story books. Three is more than two. In total, we have five story books to read together.
I have three storybooks on my shelf. Two storybooks have pictures of animals. One storybook has a big red bus. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three storybooks to read.
We have two stoves in the big kitchen. One stove has four burners. The other stove has two burners. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six burners.
Mom has two strainers in the kitchen. One strainer is big and one is small. The big strainer can hold more pasta than the small one. Two strainers are in the drawer.
I have six straws for my juice box. My friend has four straws. Six is more than four. Altogether, we have ten straws.
I have six strawberries in my bowl. Three strawberries are red and three are green. The red ones and green ones have the same number. Six is more than three.
I see two streams in the park. One stream has three fish. The other stream has five fish. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight fish in the streams.
There are seven houses on the street. Three houses have red doors and four houses have blue doors. Four is more than three. In total, seven houses line the street.
I have two strings on my shoe. My friend has three strings on her bag. Three is more than two. In total, we have five strings.
I see four string instruments in the music room. Two are violins and two are guitars. The number of violins is the same as the number of guitars. Four is more than two.
The cat has three stripes on its back. Two stripes are black and one stripe is white. Two is more than one. In total, the cat has three stripes.
Dad had two strokes last year. One stroke was small and one stroke was big. One is fewer than two. Now he takes medicine every day.
The playground has two big structures. One structure is a tall slide and one structure is a small climbing wall. Two is more than one. In total, there are two structures for kids to play on.
There are six students in the reading corner. Two students are reading books and four students are drawing pictures. Four is more than two. In total, six students are learning together.
I have six stuffed toys on my bed. Two are bears and four are bunnies. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six stuffed toys to hug.
There are six sturgeon in the big tank. Two sturgeon are very long and four are short. Four is more than two. In total, six sturgeon swim together.
A scientist saw five subatomic particles in a big machine. Three particles were very fast. Two particles were slow. Three is more than two. In total, five particles zoomed around.
I saw three submarines in the big blue ocean. Two submarines are big and one is small. Two is more than one. They all go under the water.
We have two cups of a white substance. One cup has sugar and one cup has salt. They look the same, but they taste different. Two is more than one.
A suburb has many houses. I see five houses on my street. Three houses are white and two houses are blue. Three is more than two. In total, there are five houses in my suburb.
I saw two subway trains at the station. One train was red and one train was blue. Two is more than one. They both take people to different places.
Two big ships go through the Suez Canal. One ship is very long. Two is more than one. They carry many things.
I see six sugar beets in the garden. Two sugar beets are big and round. Four sugar beets are small and thin. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six sugar beets.
I see six tall sugarcanes in the field. Three sugarcanes are very tall and three are short. The tall ones are more than the short ones. In total, there are six sugarcanes.
Dad has three suits in his closet. One suit is blue and two suits are gray. Two is more than one. In total, he has three suits for work.
I saw two sumo wrestlers at the show. They had big bellies and strong legs. One wrestler pushed the other out of the ring. Two is more than one.
I see one big sun in the sky. Two clouds are near the sun. The sun is more than the clouds in size, but there is only one sun.
I see four sunbirds in the garden. Two sunbirds are red and two are yellow. The red ones have the same number as the yellow ones. Four is more than two.
I saw two sundials in the park. One sundial was big and one was small. The big one has more shadows than the small one. In total, there are two sundials.
I see six sunflowers in the garden. Two sunflowers are tall and four are short. Four is more than two. They all have bright yellow petals.
A lab has two supercomputers. One supercomputer is big and fast. The other supercomputer is big and fast too. They have the same number of parts. Two is more than one.
There are two supergiant stars in the picture. One supergiant is very big and bright. The other supergiant is smaller. One is more than the other in size.
I see four superheroes flying in the sky. Two superheroes have red capes and two have blue capes. The same number have red and blue. Four is more than two.
There are two supermarkets on our street. One supermarket has five red doors. The other supermarket has three red doors. Five is more than three.
The teacher has six boxes of supplies. Two boxes hold crayons and four boxes hold paper. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six boxes for the class.
I see two flat surfaces on the table. One surface is for my plate and one surface is for my cup. They have the same number of surfaces.
I see two surfboards on the sand. One surfboard is blue and one surfboard is red. They have the same number of fins. Two is more than one.
I have three sushi rolls on my plate. My friend has five sushi rolls. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight sushi rolls.
I saw five swallows flying in the sky. Three swallows sat on a wire. Two swallows flew away. Three is more than two. In total, there were five swallows.
I saw four swallowtail butterflies in the garden. Two butterflies had yellow wings and two had black wings. The two groups have the same number. Four is more than two.
I saw three frogs in the swamp. Two frogs were green and one frog was brown. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three frogs in the swamp.
I see four swans on the pond. Two swans are white and two swans are gray. The number of white swans is the same as the number of gray swans. Four is more than two.
A person has tiny drops of sweat on their skin. Two drops of sweat fall from the nose. Three drops of sweat are on the forehead. Three is more than two. In total, five drops of sweat are there.
I have three sweaters in my closet. Two sweaters are red and one sweater is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three warm sweaters.
There are three Sweden flags on the big map. Two flags are blue and yellow. One flag is small. Two is more than one.
I have three sweet potatoes on my plate. My friend has two sweet potatoes. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five sweet potatoes.
I saw six swifts flying in the sky. Three swifts are fast and three swifts are faster. Three is the same as three. In total, six swifts are flying together.
There are six swimmers in the pool. Two swimmers wear blue caps and four swimmers wear red caps. Four is more than two. In total, six swimmers are splashing in the water.
There are three swimming pools in the park. One pool is big and two pools are small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three pools for kids to splash in.
I have two swimsuits for the pool. One swimsuit is blue and one is red. I have the same number of each color. In total, I have two swimsuits.
There are three swings in the park. Two kids are on the swings. One kid is waiting. Two is more than one. In total, three swings are for playing.
The knight has two swords. One sword is long and shiny. The other sword is short and old. Two is more than one. Altogether, he has two swords to fight.
I saw three swordfish in the ocean. Two swordfish swam fast. One swordfish swam slow. Two is more than one. In total, three swordfish swam together.
A word has three syllables. Clap once for each part. One syllable is fewer than three. Two syllables are more than one.
The orchestra played one symphony at the concert. Then they played two more symphonies. Three is more than one. In total, they played three symphonies.
There are two synagogues on our street. One synagogue has a big blue door. The other synagogue has a small gold star. Two is more than one.
The nurse has four syringes on the tray. Two syringes are big and two syringes are small. The big ones are more than the small ones. In total, there are four syringes ready.
Mom poured two syrups on my pancakes. I have one syrup on my plate. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have three syrups.
A computer has one system that runs everything. Two systems can talk to each other. One is fewer than two.
I have six t-shirts in my drawer. Three t-shirts are blue and three are red. The two colors have the same number of shirts. Six is more than three.
I see four tables in the room. Two tables are big and two tables are small. The big tables have the same number as the small tables. Four is more than two.
I see four tables in the room. Two tables are big and two tables are small. The big tables are more than the small tables. In total, there are four tables for us to use.
I have two tablets on my desk. One tablet is for drawing and one tablet is for reading. They have the same number of apps. Two is more than one.
I have six pieces of tableware on the table. Three are spoons and three are forks. The spoons and forks have the same number. Six is more than three.
I see six tadpoles in the pond. Three tadpoles have tiny tails. Three tadpoles have small legs. Three is the same as three. In total, there are six tadpoles swimming together.
I have six tags on my backpack. Three tags are red and three tags are blue. The two colors have the same number of tags. Six is more than three.
A dog has one tail. A cat also has one tail. They have the same number of tails. Two tails are more than one tail.
I saw the Taj Mahal in a book. There are two big domes on top. Four tall towers stand around it. Two is fewer than four. They make the building look grand.
The Taklamakan Desert has very few plants. I see two small bushes and one dry rock. Two is more than one. They are all alone in the sand.
Mom read two tales to me before bed. One tale was about a brave mouse. The other tale was about a kind bear. Two tales are more than one tale. Altogether, I heard two tales.
I have three tamarinds in my hand. My friend has two tamarinds. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five tamarinds.
I have three tangs in my fish tank. Two tangs are yellow and one tang is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three tangs swimming around.
I see two big tanks in the yard. One tank is green and one tank is blue. The green tank is bigger than the blue tank. In total, there are two tanks.
There are four taps in the kitchen. Two taps are for cold water and two taps are for hot water. The two groups have the same number of taps. In total, there are four taps.
I have two rolls of tape on my desk. One roll is clear and one roll is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have two rolls of tape.
I see two tapestries on the wall. One tapestry has flowers and the other has birds. Two is more than one. They are both very pretty.
I saw two tapirs at the zoo. One tapir was eating leaves. The other tapir was sleeping. Two is more than one. In total, there are two tapirs.
I saw two tarantulas at the zoo. One tarantula was big and hairy. The other tarantula was smaller. Two is more than one. They both sat still on a log.
I found three tardigrades under my microscope. Two tardigrades are walking slowly. One tardigrade is sleeping. Two is more than one. In total, there are three tiny tardigrades.
I have two taro roots in my basket. My friend has three taro roots. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five taro roots.
I saw three tarsiers in the tree. Two tarsiers have big eyes. One tarsier is smaller. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three tarsiers.
I saw two tasmanian devils at the zoo. One devil was eating meat. The other devil was sleeping. Two is more than one.
I see four yellow taxis on the street. Two taxis are moving fast. Two taxis are waiting. Two is the same as two. In total, there are four taxis.
Mom poured two cups of tea. I drank one cup and Dad drank one cup. That is the same number for both of us.
There are three teachers in my school. Two teachers help us read and one teacher helps us draw. Two is more than one. In total, three teachers are here to help us learn.
There are two teams playing a game. One team has five players and the other team has five players too. They have the same number of players. In total, there are ten players on the field.
I have two tears on my cheek. My friend has three tears on her face. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five tears.
I have two teddy bears on my bed. One teddy bear is brown and one teddy bear is white. They have the same number of buttons on their tummies. Two is more than one.
I have ten teeth in my mouth. Four teeth are on top and six teeth are on the bottom. Six is more than four. Altogether, I have ten teeth to chew my food.
I see two telephones on the desk. One telephone is red and one telephone is blue. They have the same number of buttons. Two is more than one.
I see two telescopes in the science room. One telescope is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. In total, there are two telescopes.
There are three televisions in the house. One is in the living room and two are in the bedrooms. Two is more than one. In total, there are three televisions.
I watch two television programs in the morning. My sister watches three programs. Three is more than two. In total, we watch five programs.
We saw two temples on our walk. One temple is big and one temple is small. The big temple has more windows than the small one. In total, we saw two temples.
I have ten fingers on my two hands. Five fingers are on one hand and five on the other. The two hands have the same number of fingers. Ten is more than five.
A person has many tendons in their body. Two tendons are in the wrist. Three tendons are in the ankle. Two is fewer than three. In total, there are five tendons in those two spots.
We have four tents at the camp. Two tents are big and two tents are small. The big tents have more space than the small ones. In total, we have four tents for the trip.
I saw six termites on the log. Two termites were small and four were big. Four is more than two. They all crawled together.
I see four terns flying over the beach. Two terns have black caps on their heads. Two terns have white feathers on their bellies. Two is the same as two. Altogether, four terns are looking for fish.
The terracotta army has many soldiers. I saw three soldiers standing in a row. Two soldiers are taller than the rest. Three is more than two.
There are four terrestrial planets in our solar system. Earth is one of them. Mars is another one. Four is more than one.
I see three terriers in the park. Two terriers are brown and one is white. Two is more than one. They all run fast together.
There are three Tesla cars in the parking lot. Two are red and one is white. Two is more than one.
The teacher gave us a test with ten questions. I answered eight questions right. My friend answered six questions right. Eight is more than six. In total, we answered fourteen questions right.
Texas is a big state with many cities. I have been to two cities in Texas. My friend has been to three cities there. Three is more than two.
I have three small pieces of textile on my desk. One piece is soft and blue. Two pieces are rough and red. Three is more than two. They are fun to touch.
There are four members in the band The Beatles. John, Paul, George, and Ringo are the four people. Four is more than two. They made many songs together.
I have two blue marbles in my hand. My friend has three blue marbles. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five blue marbles.
There are two statues of The Thinker in the park. One statue is big and one statue is small. The big one is more than the small one in size. They are both made of stone.
There are two theaters in our town. One theater has big red chairs. The other theater has small blue chairs. The big theater has more chairs than the small one. In total, they have ten chairs.
There are six children in the theatre. Three children sit in the front row. Three children sit in the back row. The two rows have the same number of children. In total, six children watch the play.
We went to a theme park with my family. I saw four big rides and two small rides. Four is more than two. In total, there were six rides at the park.
I have two thermometers. One is red and one is blue. Two is more than one.
I have two thesaurus books on my shelf. One is big and one is small. The big one has more words than the small one. Altogether, they help me find new words.
Two thieves ran from the store. One thief had a bag. One thief had a hat. Two is more than one.
I have three red things and two blue things. Three is more than two. In total, I have five things.
I have three things in my pocket: a red button, a blue marble, and a yellow sticker. Two things are round and one thing is flat. Two is more than one.
There are four thinkers in the room. Two thinkers sit on chairs and two thinkers stand by the board. The number of sitting thinkers is the same as the number of standing thinkers. In total, there are four thinkers.
There are two boys named Thomas in my class. One Thomas has red shoes and the other Thomas has blue shoes. They have the same number of crayons.
There are two Thor movies in the box. One movie has a big hammer. The other movie has a shiny hammer. Two is more than one.
A bug has three parts to its body. The thorax is one part. It has six legs on the thorax. The head has two eyes. The thorax has more parts than the head.
I see three thoroughbred horses in the field. Two horses are brown and one is black. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three horses.
I have one throat. My friend has one throat too. We have the same number of throats. Two throats in total can make sounds.
The king has one big throne. The queen has one throne too. They have the same number of thrones. Two thrones are in the hall.
I have two thumbs on my hands. One thumb is on the left hand and one thumb is on the right hand. They are the same number. Two thumbs help me hold a cup.
I have two thyme plants in my garden. One plant has small green leaves. The other plant has the same number of leaves. Two is more than one.
I heard three ticks from the big clock. Two ticks were loud and one tick was soft. Two is more than one. In total, three ticks came from the clock on the wall.
I have three tickets for the fun fair. My friend has two tickets. Three is more than two. In total, we have five tickets to ride the rides.
I saw three tigers at the zoo. Two tigers were sleeping in the sun. One tiger was walking around. Two is more than one. In total, there were three tigers.
I saw two tiger sharks in the big tank. One tiger shark has stripes on its body. Two is more than one. They swim fast in the water.
I see four tilapia fish in the pond. Two tilapia are big and two tilapia are small. The big ones are more than the small ones? No, they are the same number. Altogether, there are four tilapia swimming.
I have two clocks in my room. One clock shows the time for morning. The other clock shows the time for night. Two is more than one.
I have two timers on my desk. One timer is round and one timer is square. They have the same number of buttons. Two is more than one.
I have two tin cans on the shelf. One tin can is red and one tin can is blue. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I saw two tinamous in the garden. One tinamou was eating seeds. The other tinamou was looking for bugs. Two is more than one.
I have four tips on my new pencil. My friend has two tips on her pencil. Four is more than two. In total, we have six tips.
The car has four tires. One tire is flat. Three tires are still good. Three is more than one. In total, there are four tires on the car.
I have ten tissues in my pocket. I used three tissues for my runny nose. Seven tissues are left. Three is fewer than seven.
Titan is a big moon with seven large lakes and three small seas. Seven is more than three. In total, Titan has ten big bodies of liquid on its cold surface.
There are two titans in the story. One titan is big and strong. The other titan is tall and wise. Two is more than one.
I saw four toads by the pond. Two toads jumped into the water. Two toads stayed on the rock. Two is the same as two. Altogether, there were four toads.
I made four pieces of toast for breakfast. I ate two pieces and my dad ate two pieces. We ate the same number of toast. Two is less than four.
Mom has two toasters in the kitchen. One toaster is silver and one toaster is red. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I have ten toes on my feet. Five toes are on the left foot and five toes are on the right foot. The two feet have the same number of toes.
I have two pieces of tofu on my plate. My friend has three pieces of tofu. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five pieces of tofu.
We have two dogs to go on a walk. One dog is big and one dog is small. The big dog is more than the small dog. In total, we have two dogs to go.
There are two toilets in our school bathroom. One toilet is big and one toilet is small. They have the same number of seats. Two is more than one.
Tom has two red cars and three blue cars. Five is more than two. In total, Tom has five cars.
I have six tomatoes in my basket. Two tomatoes are red and four are green. Four is more than two. In total, I have six tomatoes for salad.
There are five tombs in the old field. Two tombs are big and three tombs are small. Three is more than two. In total, five tombs sit under the tall trees.
I have two tongs in the kitchen drawer. One tong is big and one tong is small. The big tong is more than the small tong in size. Altogether, I have two tongs.
I have one tongue in my mouth. My dog has one tongue too. We have the same number of tongues. A tongue can taste sweet and sour things.
Dad has five tools in his big red box. Three tools are hammers and two tools are screwdrivers. Three is more than two. In total, he has five tools to fix things.
I have six teeth on top and six teeth on the bottom. That is the same number on each side. In total, I have twelve teeth in my mouth.
I have two toothbrushes in my cup. One is blue and one is green. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
The rabbi holds one Torah scroll. Two Torah scrolls are in the ark. One is fewer than two.
I have two torches in my room. One torch is red and one torch is blue. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I saw two tornadoes on the news. One tornado was big and one was small. The big one is more than the small one. Two tornadoes in total.
The submarine has six torpedoes in the front. Two torpedoes are long and gray. Four torpedoes are short and black. Four is more than two. In total, there are six torpedoes ready to go.
I see four tortoises in the garden. Two tortoises are eating green leaves. Two tortoises are resting under a bush. Four is more than two. In total, there are four tortoises.
I see two toucans in the tree. One toucan has a big orange beak. The other toucan has a smaller beak. Two is more than one. They sit on a branch together.
The store has three touchscreens for people to use. Two touchscreens are big and one is small. Two is more than one. They all show bright pictures.
I have three towels in my bathroom. One towel is blue and two towels are white. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three towels to dry my hands.
There are four towers in the park. Two towers are tall and two towers are short. The tall towers have more blocks than the short ones. In total, there are four towers for us to play on.
There are two tall towers on Tower Bridge. Four cars drive over the bridge. Two towers are fewer than four cars.
Our town has three big trees in the park. Two trees are tall and one tree is short. Two is more than one. In total, there are three trees for us to play under.
Sam has eight toys in his small box. Three toys are cars and five toys are blocks. Five is more than three. In total, he has eight toys to play with after lunch.
I see two tracks in the mud. One track is big and one track is small. The big track is more than the small one. In total, there are two tracks.
There are six kids in track and field. Three kids run fast on the track. Two kids jump far in the sand. Three is more than two. In total, six kids play together.
I see four tractors in the big field. Two tractors are red and two tractors are green. The red ones are fewer than the green ones. In total, there are four tractors working today.
I see five cars in the traffic. Three cars are red and two cars are blue. Three is more than two. In total, there are five cars waiting.
I saw three deer on the trail. Two deer walked slowly. One deer ran ahead. Two is more than one.
I see four trains on the track. Two trains are red and two trains are blue. The red trains and blue trains have the same number. In total, there are four trains.
I see two train stations on my way to school. One station has a red roof and the other has a blue roof. The red station has more benches than the blue one. In total, there are two stations near my house.
I saw two trams at the station. One tram was red and one tram was blue. Two is more than one. They both had many people inside.
I have two toy transformers on my shelf. One is a red car and one is a blue truck. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I see four transports on the road. Two transports are big buses and two are small cars. The buses and cars have the same number. Four is more than two.
I see three pieces of trash on the floor. Two are paper and one is a plastic cup. Two is more than one. We should pick them up and put them in the bin.
I have two trays on the table. One tray has four cups and the other tray has two cups. Four is more than two. In total, there are six cups on the two trays.
The pirate found seven pieces of treasure in the cave. Three gold coins and four shiny gems. Three is fewer than seven. In total, he has seven treasures to hide.
There are six trees in the park. Two trees are tall and four trees are short. Four is more than two. In total, there are six trees with green leaves.
I see two treehouses in the big yard. One treehouse has a red roof and the other has a blue roof. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are two treehouses for us to play in.
The team had three trials in the morning. Two trials went well, and one trial had a small problem. Two is more than one. In total, they had three trials.
I see four triangles on the paper. Two triangles are big and two triangles are small. The big ones have the same number as the small ones. Four is more than two.
There are two galaxies in the sky that we can see with a telescope. The Triangulum Galaxy is one of them. The Milky Way is the other. Two is more than one.
The tribe has ten people in total. Four people are children and six people are adults. Six is more than four. They live together in one big hut.
I see three triceratops eating green leaves. Two triceratops have big horns. One triceratops has a small horn. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three triceratops.
I found four trilobite fossils in the sandbox. Two trilobites are big and two are small. The big ones are more than the small ones. In total, I have four trilobites.
Triton is a moon of Neptune. Two moons orbit Neptune. Triton is one of them. One is fewer than two.
I see two trombones in the music room. One trombone is shiny and new. The other trombone is old but still works. Two is more than one. They make a loud sound together.
I have two trousers in my closet. One trouser is blue and one trouser is black. They are the same number as my two shirts.
I have two pairs of trousers. One pair is blue and one pair is brown. Two is more than one. In total, I have two pairs of trousers.
I saw six trout in the clear stream. Two trout swam under a big rock. Four trout stayed near the shore. Four is more than two. Altogether, six trout were in the water.
I see six trucks on the road. Four trucks are big and two trucks are small. Four is more than two. In total, there are six trucks.
I found three true bugs on the leaf. Two true bugs are red and one is green. Two is more than one. They all have six legs.
I have three truffles in my hand. My friend has two truffles. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five truffles.
I see two trumpets on the table. One trumpet is shiny and gold. The other trumpet is silver. Two is more than one. They make loud sounds.
An elephant has one trunk. A person has zero trunks. One is more than zero. The trunk is long and strong.
The big tree has one thick trunk. Two small trunks grow next to it. One is fewer than two. In total, there are three trunks.
I saw two tsetse flies near the river. One fly landed on a leaf. Two is more than one. They buzzed around for a short time.
I saw two tuataras at the zoo. They sat on a rock. One tuatara was bigger than the other. Two is more than one.
I have two tubs in my bathroom. One tub is big and one tub is small. The big tub holds more water than the small tub. In total, I have two tubs for bath time.
I see two tubas in the band room. One tuba is big and shiny. The other tuba is smaller. Two is more than one. They make a low sound together.
I have two tubes of paint. My friend has three tubes. Three is more than two. In total, we have five tubes.
We played tug of war with two teams. Each team had four kids. Four is the same as four. In total, eight kids pulled the rope.
I have six tulips in my garden. Three tulips are red and three are yellow. The red ones and the yellow ones have the same number. Two tulips are tall and four are short. Four is more than two.
I have one tummy. My cat has one tummy too. We have the same number of tummies.
There are six tuna fish in the big tank. Two tuna are small and four tuna are big. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six tuna swimming around.
There are three tunnels on the road. Two tunnels are short and one tunnel is long. Two is more than one. In total, there are three tunnels to drive through.
I see two turacos in the tree. One turaco has red wings. The other turaco has green wings. Two is more than one.
I see two big turbines on the hill. One turbine has three blades. The other turbine has three blades too. They have the same number of blades. In total, there are six blades on the two turbines.
We saw three turkeys in the yard. Two turkeys were big and one turkey was small. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three turkeys walking around.
I have three turnips in my basket. My friend has two turnips. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five turnips.
I see four turtles in the pond. Two turtles are on a rock. Two turtles are in the water. The number on the rock is the same as the number in the water. Four is more than two.
I have two tutsan plants in my garden. One tutsan has five yellow flowers. The other tutsan has three yellow flowers. Five is more than three. Altogether, there are eight flowers.
We have two TVs in our house. One TV is in the living room and one TV is in the bedroom. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
There are two twins in my class. They have the same number of toys. One twin has four blocks and the other has four blocks too. Four is equal to four.
I have two types of blocks: round ones and square ones. Three blocks are round and three blocks are square. They have the same number. In total, I have six blocks.
I have two typewriters on my desk. One typewriter is black and one is gray. Two is more than one. They both have keys that go click-clack.
I see three tyrannosaurus dinosaurs in the green field. Two are big and one is small. Two is more than one. They all have sharp teeth.
I saw two tyrant flycatchers on the fence. One flew away, so only one is left. One is fewer than two.
The doctor used an ultrasound to see the baby. She saw two tiny hands and two tiny feet. Four is more than two. In total, she saw four small parts.
I see four umbrellas by the door. Two umbrellas are red and two are blue. The red ones have the same number as the blue ones. In total, there are four umbrellas.
I have two uncles. One uncle lives far away. One uncle lives near my house. Two is more than one. They both come to visit me.
I have six pairs of underwear in my drawer. Three pairs are blue and three pairs are white. The two colors have the same number. Six is more than three.
I saw three unicorns in the forest. Two unicorns had pink horns and one had a gold horn. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three unicorns.
The team has ten uniforms. Five uniforms are blue and five are red. The two colors have the same number. In total, there are ten uniforms for the players.
A ruler has ten units marked on it. Five units are the same as half of the ruler. Ten is more than five.
I have three united states dollars in my piggy bank. My friend has two united states dollars. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five united states dollars.
There is one universe with many stars. Our universe has more than one galaxy. Two galaxies can be far apart. One universe is all we have.
There are two big universities in our town. One university has three red buildings. The other university has five red buildings. Five is more than three. In total, there are eight buildings.
There are seven planets in our solar system besides Earth. Uranus is one of them. It has five big moons and many small ones. Five is fewer than seven.
I have two Urdu books on my shelf. My friend has three Urdu books. Three is more than two. In total, we have five Urdu books.
There are seven stars in Ursa Minor. Four stars make a bowl shape. Three stars make a handle. Four is more than three. In total, they form a small bear in the sky.
There are two user interfaces on the screen. One is a button and one is a menu. They have the same number of parts. Two is fewer than ten.
A woman has one uterus inside her body. A baby can grow there for nine months. One is fewer than nine.
The doctor gave me one vaccine shot. My friend got two vaccine shots. Two is more than one. They help keep us healthy.
I have two vacuums at home. One vacuum is big and one vacuum is small. The big vacuum is more than the small one. In total, I have two vacuums to clean the floor.
Mom has two vacuum cleaners in the closet. One vacuum cleaner is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. In total, she has two vacuum cleaners.
I see two valleys from the hill. One valley has a river and the other has many trees. The two valleys are the same size. In total, there are two valleys below us.
I see four valves on the big pipe. Two valves are red and two valves are blue. The red and blue valves have the same number. Four is more than two.
I saw three vampires at the party. Two vampires wore black capes. One vampire had no cape. Two is more than one. In total, three vampires stood in the dark room.
I see three vampire bats hanging upside down in the cave. Two bats have big wings. One bat is smaller than the others. Three is more than one.
I see two vans on the street. One van is red and one van is blue. They have the same number of wheels. Four wheels are on each van.
Mom has three vanilla cupcakes on the plate. I have two vanilla cupcakes in my hand. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five vanilla cupcakes.
I have two toy cars and three toy trucks. Three is more than two. In total, I have five toy vehicles.
I see three variable stars in the sky. Two stars blink bright and dim. One star is steady. Two is more than one. Altogether, three stars shine at night.
I have two vases on the shelf. One vase is tall and one vase is short. They are not the same size. I put three flowers in the tall vase and two flowers in the short vase. Three is more than two.
I see three bright stars in the sky. One star is Vega. Two stars are smaller than Vega. Vega is more than the other two.
I have six vegetables in my basket. Three are carrots and three are green beans. The two groups have the same number. Six is more than three.
I see four vehicles on the road. Two are cars and two are trucks. The cars and trucks have the same number. In total, there are four vehicles.
The bride wore a white veil. Two veils hung on the rack. One veil had lace, and one veil had flowers. Two is more than one.
I have many veins in my body. Five veins are in my arm and three veins are in my leg. Five is more than three. In total, they help my blood move.
I saw three velociraptors in the park. Two velociraptors were big and one was small. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three velociraptors running fast.
Venice has many canals. I saw two gondolas on the water. Three bridges cross the canal. Two is fewer than three.
I drew two venn diagrams in my notebook. One venn diagram has two circles that overlap. The other venn diagram has three circles. Three is more than two. They help me sort things into groups.
Venus is a planet. There is only one Venus in our solar system. Earth has one moon, but Venus has zero moons. One is more than zero.
There are two statues of Venus in the museum. One statue is tall and one statue is small. They have the same number of arms. Two is more than one.
I have three verbena plants in my garden. Two verbena plants have purple flowers. One verbena plant has pink flowers. Two is more than one. Altogether, I have three verbena plants.
I see four vertebrates in the pond. Two are fish and two are frogs. The fish and frogs have the same number. Four is more than two.
I have two vests in my closet. One vest is red and one vest is blue. Two is more than one. They keep me warm.
There are two vets at the animal clinic. One vet helps a sick dog and the other vet helps a small cat. Two is more than one. Altogether, they take care of many pets.
I have two vicuñas in my picture. One vicuña is eating grass. The other vicuña is looking at me. Two is more than one.
I have two videos on my tablet. One video is about a funny dog. The other video is about a singing bird. Two is more than one. In total, I have two videos to watch.
I have two video cameras. One camera is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. In total, I have two cameras.
I have three video games on my shelf. My friend has two video games. Three is more than two. In total, we have five video games to play together.
I have two video game consoles at home. My brother has three video game consoles. Three is more than two. In total, we have five video game consoles.
I have been to Vienna one time. My friend has been there three times. Three is more than one.
I have two friends from Vietnam. One friend has a red hat. Two is more than one.
I see four birds from my window. Two birds are blue and two birds are red. The same number of blue and red birds sit on the tree.
Five vikings stand on the long ship. Three vikings hold big shields. Two vikings hold long oars. Three is more than two. In total, there are five vikings on the ship.
There are five houses in the small village. Three houses have red roofs and two houses have blue roofs. Three is more than two. In total, there are five houses in the village.
I see six vines on the garden wall. Three vines have green leaves and three vines have purple flowers. The two groups have the same number of vines.
Mom put two bottles of vinegar in the kitchen. One bottle is full and one bottle is half full. The full bottle has more vinegar than the half bottle. In total, we have two bottles of vinegar.
I have two violas in my music class. One viola is big and one viola is small. The big viola has more strings than the small one. In total, I have two violas to play.
I have five violets in my garden. Two violets have purple flowers and three violets have white flowers. Three is more than two. In total, I have five pretty violets.
I see four violins in the music room. Two violins are big and two violins are small. The big ones have the same number as the small ones. In total, there are four violins.
A tiny virus is too small to see. Five viruses can fit on a pin. Ten viruses are more than five. They are very, very small.
There are three statues of Vishnu in the temple. Two statues have four arms. One statue has two arms. Two is more than one. In total, there are three statues.
There are six visitors at the door. Two visitors are tall and four visitors are short. Four is more than two. In total, six visitors came to see us today.
I have two visual toys on my desk. One is a red car and one is a blue truck. They are the same number. Two is more than one.
The class made six art projects today. Four projects are paintings and two projects are drawings. Four is more than two. In total, they have six beautiful pieces.
A person has two eyes in their visual system. Each eye sees things. Two is more than one. Together, they help you see the world.
I have two vitamins in my hand. My friend has three vitamins. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five vitamins.
I hear three voices in the next room. Two voices are loud and one voice is soft. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three voices talking.
There are three volcanoes on the big island. One volcano is very tall. Two volcanoes are shorter. One is fewer than two. In total, three volcanoes sit near the blue ocean.
We have three volleyballs in the gym. Two volleyballs are new and one is old. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have three volleyballs to play with.
I see three vowels in the word 'cat'. The letter 'a' is one vowel. Two more vowels are in 'bee'. Three is more than two.
There are four waiters at the big table. Two waiters carry plates and two waiters pour water. Two is the same as two. In total, four waiters help the people eat.
There are three waitresses in the red diner. Two waitresses carry big trays. One waitress has fewer trays than the other two. In total, they serve ten tables.
I saw three wales in the big blue sea. Two wales were jumping high. One wale was swimming fast. Three is more than one.
I see two walls in my room. One wall is blue and one wall is white. They are the same size. Two is more than one.
I have two wallets in my bag. One wallet is red and one wallet is blue. They have the same number of coins inside. Two is more than one.
I have six walnuts in my hand. Two walnuts are big and four walnuts are small. Four is more than two. Altogether, I have six walnuts to eat.
I saw four walruses on the ice. Two walruses were big and two were small. The big ones are more than the small ones. In total, there are four walruses resting together.
Two war elephants stand by the big tree. One war elephant has a long trunk. The other war elephant has a small bell. Two is more than one. They are very big and strong.
There are three toy warehouses in the playroom. Two warehouses are red and one is blue. Two is more than one. In total, there are three warehouses for the little cars.
I see two warships in the harbor. One warship is big and gray. The other warship is smaller. Two is more than one. They are both floating on the water.
We have two washing machines in the laundry room. One machine is big and one machine is small. The big machine can wash more clothes than the small one. In total, we have two machines to clean our clothes.
I saw six wasps near the yellow flowers. Four wasps flew away, and two wasps stayed. Two is fewer than four. Altogether, there were six wasps buzzing around.
I have two watches on my desk. One watch is red and one watch is blue. Two is more than one. They both tell the time.
I saw six water buffalo in the field. Two water buffalo were eating grass. Four water buffalo were resting in the mud. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six water buffalo.
There are two water towers in the town. One water tower is tall and blue. The other water tower is short and gray. Two is more than one. In total, there are two water towers holding water for us.
I saw three water vipers in the pond. Two water vipers were swimming. One water viper was resting on a rock. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three water vipers.
I saw two waterfalls in the park. One waterfall was tall and one was short. The tall one is more than the short one. Altogether, they made a loud sound.
I have three watermelons in my cart. My friend has two watermelons. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five watermelons.
I saw two watermills by the river. One watermill has a big wheel. The other watermill has a small wheel. The big wheel is more than the small wheel. Altogether, there are two watermills.
I saw seven big waves at the beach. Three waves were tall and four waves were small. Three is fewer than seven. Altogether, the waves splashed on the sand.
The knight has two weapons. One is a long sword and one is a round shield. Two is more than one. In total, he has two weapons to fight.
I saw three weasels in the tall grass. Two weasels were brown and one was white. Two is more than one. They ran fast and hid under a log.
I see three web browsers on the computer screen. Two are open and one is closed. Two is more than one. In total, there are three browsers.
I have two websites on my tablet. One website shows funny cat videos. The other website has games for kids. Two is more than one.
At the wedding, there were six flower girls. Two flower girls wore pink dresses and four wore white dresses. Four is more than two. In total, six flower girls walked down the aisle.
I have two wedges of cheese on my plate. One wedge is big and one wedge is small. The big wedge is more than the small wedge. In total, I have two wedges.
I see three weeds in the garden. Two weeds are tall and one weed is short. Two is more than one. In total, there are three weeds.
There are seven days in one week. Monday is the first day. Friday is the fifth day. Five is fewer than seven.
I saw six weevils on the old log. Four weevils have long snouts. Two weevils have short snouts. Four is more than two. Altogether, there are six weevils crawling slowly.
I see two weighing scales in the kitchen. One scale has a red apple on it. The other scale has three green apples. Three is more than one. The scales show the weight of the apples.
I saw two werewolves in the storybook. One werewolf had big ears and one had a long tail. Two is more than one. They ran into the dark woods.
There are two west lakes near our town. One west lake has three ducks. The other west lake has five ducks. Five is more than three. Altogether, there are eight ducks on the two west lakes.
A wetland has many plants and animals. I saw three ducks and two frogs there. Five is more than two. Altogether, five animals live in the wetland.
I saw three whales in the ocean. Two whales were big and one whale was small. Two is more than one. In total, there were three whales splashing.
I saw two whale sharks at the big aquarium. One whale shark was very long, and the other was a bit shorter. Two is more than one. They swam slowly in the blue water.
The farmer has ten stalks of wheat. He cuts five stalks and leaves five stalks. The two piles have the same number. Five is fewer than ten.
A bike has two wheels. A car has four wheels. Four is more than two. In total, they have six wheels.
I see two wheelbarrows in the garden. One wheelbarrow has three wheels. The other wheelbarrow has one wheel. Three is more than one. In total, there are two wheelbarrows.
There are three wheelchairs in the room. Two wheelchairs are red and one is blue. Two is more than one. Altogether, there are three wheelchairs.
I saw two whips at the rodeo. One whip was long and one whip was short. The long whip is more than the short one in length. They are both used by the cowboy.
I see two whirlpool galaxies in the big picture. One whirlpool galaxy has four bright arms. The other whirlpool galaxy has two bright arms. Four is more than two. In total, there are six bright arms.
A cat has many whiskers on its face. I see four long whiskers on one side and four on the other side. The two sides have the same number of whiskers. Eight whiskers in total help the cat feel things.
I have two whistles. One whistle is red and one whistle is blue. Two is more than one. They make a loud sound.
I see two white clouds in the sky. Three white flowers are in the garden. Two is fewer than three.
I have five white blood cells in my tiny drop of blood. Three white blood cells are round and two are not. Three is more than two. They help keep me healthy.
A white dwarf is a small, hot star. There are two white dwarfs in the sky that we can see with a big telescope. One white dwarf is smaller than the other. Two is more than one.
Our class has two whiteboards. One whiteboard is big and one is small. The big one is more than the small one. We write on them every day.
I saw six whiteflies on the leaf. Two whiteflies flew away. Four whiteflies stayed. Four is more than two. In total, six whiteflies were on the leaf.
A man has one wife. His friend has one wife too. They have the same number of wives. Two wives are in the garden together.
Mom has two wigs in her closet. One wig is brown and one wig is black. Two is more than one. She wears them on special days.
I saw three wild boars in the forest. Two boars were big and one was small. Two is more than one. They ran away fast.
I saw six wildebeests on the grass. Two wildebeests were eating. Four wildebeests were resting. Four is more than two. In total, there were six wildebeests.
I see three willow trees by the pond. Two willows are tall and one is small. Two is more than one. They all have long, green leaves that sway in the wind.
I see three wind instruments on the shelf. Two are flutes and one is a small recorder. Two is more than one. In total, there are three wind instruments.
I see three wind turbines on the hill. Two turbines are spinning fast. One turbine is still. Two is more than one. In total, there are three wind turbines.
I see four windmills on the hill. Two windmills have white blades and two have red blades. The number of white windmills is the same as the number of red windmills. In total, there are four windmills spinning in the breeze.
I see two windows in the room. One window is big and one window is small. The big window is more than the small window. Altogether, there are two windows.
A bird has two wings. Four birds have eight wings in total. Two is fewer than eight.
There are three winners at the race. One winner got a blue ribbon. Two winners got red ribbons. Three is more than two.
I see six wires on the floor. Three wires are long and three wires are short. They have the same number. Two wires are red and four wires are blue. Four is more than two.
A wisent is a big animal like a cow. I saw two wisents in the zoo. One wisent was eating grass. The other wisent was resting. Two is more than one.
There are three witnesses in the room. Two witnesses saw the red car. One witness saw a blue truck. Two is more than one. In total, three witnesses are here.
I see three wolves in the forest. Two wolves are big and one wolf is small. Two is more than one. In total, there are three wolves howling at the moon.
I saw two wolverines in the zoo. One wolverine was eating meat. The other wolverine was sleeping. Two is more than one.
I see two women at the park. One woman has a red hat. The other woman has a blue bag. Two is more than one. They are sitting on a bench together.
I saw three woodpeckers on the big tree. Two woodpeckers were pecking at the bark. One woodpecker was flying away. Two is more than one. Altogether, there were three woodpeckers.
I see three woodwind instruments on the shelf. Two are flutes and one is a clarinet. Two is more than one. They are all shiny and new.
I know four words. My friend knows six words. Six is more than four. Altogether we know ten words.
There are six workers at the big table. Four workers have hard hats and two workers have bright vests. Four is more than two. In total, six workers are building a tall wall.
There are seven continents in the world. Four continents have many people, and three continents have fewer people. Four is more than three. In total, seven continents make up the whole world.
There are two world heritage sites in our country. One site has old temples and one site has a big palace. Two is more than one. In total, we have two special places to visit.
I see six worms in the dirt. Two worms are long and four worms are short. Four is more than two. They wiggle in the soil.
The doctor counted three wounds on my knee. Two wounds are small and one wound is big. Two is more than one. In total, I have three wounds.
I see six wrasse fish in the clear blue water. Two wrasse are red and four wrasse are green. Four is more than two. They swim together near the coral.
I saw four wrens in the garden. Two wrens were on the fence and two were on the ground. The same number are on the fence and on the ground. Four wrens in total.
There are three writers in the room. Two writers have pens and one writer has a pencil. Two is more than one. Altogether, they write three stories.
The doctor took two x-rays of my arm. One x-ray showed the bone. The other x-ray showed the same bone from a different side. Two is more than one.
I see two xylophones on the shelf. One xylophone has eight colorful bars. The other xylophone has five bars. Eight is more than five. In total, there are two xylophones.
There are four yaks in the green field. Two yaks have long horns and two yaks have short horns. The two groups have the same number of yaks. Four is more than two.
I have three yams on my plate. My friend has five yams. Five is more than three. Altogether, we have eight yams.
The Yangtze River is very long. Five boats float on the river. Two boats are big and three boats are small. Three is more than two. In total, five boats are on the water.
Our yard has three big trees and two small bushes. The trees are more than the bushes. In total, there are five plants in the yard.
I have three balls of yarn. My friend has two balls of yarn. Three is more than two. In total, we have five balls of yarn.
A year has twelve months. Six months are warm and six months are cold. The two halves have the same number of months. Twelve is more than six.
I see five tiny yeast cells in the bowl. Three yeast cells are round and two are oval. Three is more than two. In total, there are five yeast cells helping the bread grow.
I see three yellow flowers in the garden. Two yellow flowers are tall and one is short. Three is more than two.
I have three yen coins in my pocket. My friend has two yen coins. Three is more than two. Altogether we have five yen coins.
I have two cups of yogurt. My friend has one cup. Two is more than one. Altogether, we have three cups of yogurt.
I have three toys that are mine. You have two toys that are yours. Three is more than two. In total, we have five toys.
I have three yucca plants in my room. Two yuccas have tall green leaves. One yucca is shorter than the others. Three is more than one.
The Zambezi River has five big waterfalls. Three waterfalls are very tall. Two waterfalls are wide. Three is more than two.
I saw six zebras at the zoo. Four zebras were eating grass. Two zebras were drinking water. Four is more than two. Altogether, there were six zebras.
I have zero toys in my hand. My friend has three toys. Three is more than zero.
I have two zippers on my jacket. One zipper is on the front and one is on the pocket. They are the same number.
There are six zombies in the dark yard. Three zombies have torn shirts. Two zombies have no shoes. Three is more than two. In total, there are six zombies.
Our class went to the zoo. We saw four lions and three elephants. Four is more than three. In total, we saw seven big animals at the zoo.
I have two zucchinis in my basket. Mom has three zucchinis on the counter. Three is more than two. Altogether, we have five zucchinis.
There are six Zulu people dancing in a circle. Four people wear colorful beads and two people wear animal skins. Four is more than two. Altogether, they sing and stomp their feet.
