Grand Canyon\n\nThe Grand Canyon is a very big hole in the ground in Arizona. It was made by the Colorado River cutting through rocks for a very long time. The canyon is very deep and wide. Many people visit the Grand Canyon to look at it. You can walk on trails, ride a boat on the river, or fly over it in a helicopter. The north side is called the North Rim and the south side is called the South Rim. People can hike down to the bottom and stay at a place called Phantom Ranch.
South America\n\nSouth America is a big piece of land on Earth. It is south of North America. There are 12 countries in South America. Some of them are Brazil, Argentina, and Peru. The Amazon rain forest is in South America. It is a very wet place where many trees and animals live. Animals like jaguars, monkeys, and toucans live there. The Amazon River is a very long river that runs through the forest. People grow coffee in Brazil. The soil in Argentina is good for growing food. South America also has gold and gemstones.
Japan\n\nJapan is a country made of many islands in the ocean. It is near China and Korea. The biggest island is called Honshu. Tokyo is the biggest city and the capital. Japan has tall mountains and many volcanoes. Mount Fuji is the highest mountain and looks very pretty. Japan has many earthquakes every year. Most people live near the coast. Japanese people eat rice, fish, and vegetables. Sushi is a famous Japanese food made with rice and raw fish. Japan makes cars like Toyota and Honda. It also makes robots. The Japanese flag is white with a red circle in the middle. The circle stands for the sun.
Fern\n\nA fern is a plant that does not have flowers or seeds. Instead, it makes tiny dust-like things called spores to grow new ferns. Ferns have big green leaves that are often shaped like feathers. You can find ferns in shady, wet places like woods and gardens. They like to live where there is a lot of rain and fog. Some ferns are very small, and some can grow as tall as a tree. Long, long ago, there were huge forests of ferns with giant insects.
Juniper\n\nA juniper is a kind of plant that stays green all year. Some junipers are small and close to the ground, and others grow into tall trees. They have special berries that smell nice and can be used as a spice in food. But some juniper berries are not safe to eat, so you have to be careful.
Atlas Mountains\n\nThe Atlas Mountains are a very long chain of big, rocky hills in Africa. They go through three countries: Morocco, Algeria, and Tunisia. The highest mountain in the Atlas is called Toubkal. These mountains stand between the ocean and the big, hot Sahara Desert. Many people live in the Atlas Mountains, and they are called Berbers. The mountains got their name from a giant in old stories named Atlas.
Social network service\n\nA social network service is a place on the computer or phone where people can talk to each other. You can use it to make new friends or talk to friends you already have. Many people use websites like Facebook and Twitter to send messages quickly. You can also use a social network on a phone. People use it to share pictures and stories with each other.
Pompeii\n\nPompeii was a town a long, long time ago. It was near a big mountain called Mount Vesuvius. One day, the mountain blew up and hot ash covered the whole town. The ash buried the houses, the streets, and even the people. That is why we can still see what the town looked like. People who dig in the ground find old walls with writing on them. Before the mountain blew up, Pompeii was a pretty town where people lived and played. Many people from Rome went there on vacation.
Winter\n\nWinter is the coldest time of the year. It is one of the four seasons. Winter comes after autumn and before spring. The days are shorter and the nights are longer. Some animals sleep a lot during winter. Many trees have no leaves. People wear warm clothes like coats and hats. In some places, snow falls from the sky. Many countries have holidays in winter, like Christmas and New Year's Day.
Salad\n\nA salad is a food made from leaves and vegetables. You can put lettuce, spinach, or other green leaves in a bowl. Then you add small pieces of vegetables like tomatoes, cucumbers, or carrots. Some salads have fruit, cheese, or chicken. You can pour a dressing on top, which is made from oil and spices. Salads can be a part of a meal or a whole meal by itself.
Engineering\n\nEngineering is using science and math to make things. People who do engineering are called engineers. They learn how to build things at school. Engineers make computers, buildings, watches, and websites. Some engineers work with machines, and some work with other people. Different kinds of engineers help each other. For example, computer engineers need help from electrical engineers to build a computer. Engineers have to solve problems and work together.
Diffusion\n\nDiffusion is when tiny bits of stuff move from a place where there are lots of them to a place where there are only a few. This happens in water and air. For example, when you put a drop of food coloring in a glass of water, the color spreads out until the whole glass is colored. That is diffusion. It happens because the tiny bits bump into each other and move around. Diffusion does not need any energy to happen. It helps your body get oxygen from the air into your blood.
Leap year\n\nA leap year is a year with one extra day. Most years have 365 days, but a leap year has 366 days. The extra day is added to February, so February has 29 days instead of 28. We have leap years because the Earth takes a little more than 365 days to go around the Sun. Without leap years, the seasons would slowly move to different months. Leap years happen every 4 years. The last leap year was 2024, and the next one is 2028.
Launch vehicle\n\nA launch vehicle is a big rocket that carries things from Earth up into space. It can take things like satellites or people to other places in space. Some launch vehicles can only be used one time, and then they are gone. But some new rockets, like the Falcon 9, can land back on Earth and be used again. The first part of the rocket that falls off can come back down and land. Different rockets are used depending on what they are carrying and where they are going.
Grill (cooking)\n\nA grill is a thing people use to cook food outside. Some grills burn wood or charcoal, and that makes smoke that gives the food a special taste. Other grills use gas. The heat can come from under the food or above it. People often cook meat like steak, burgers, and hot dogs on a grill. Grilling is popular in summer and on holidays like the 4th of July. Sometimes the fire touches the food and makes it taste a little burnt.
Christmas carol\n\nA Christmas carol is a special song about Christmas. People sing these songs at Christmas time or during the days before Christmas. Long ago, people in Europe sang carols at a winter party. Later, people started going from house to house to sing carols and wish their neighbors good health. This is called caroling. Some well-known Christmas carols are "We Wish You a Merry Christmas" and "Here We Come-A-Wassailing." Today, many families sing Christmas carols together during the holiday.
Environmentalism\n\nEnvironmentalism is when people work together to take care of nature. It means helping to keep the air, water, trees, and animals safe from harm.
Aurochs\n\nThe aurochs was a big, wild cow that lived long ago. It was bigger than the cows we see today. Aurochs had long, curved horns that looked like a lyre. The males were black with a pale stripe on their back, and the females were reddish. They lived in Europe, Asia, and North Africa. Aurochs are extinct now, which means there are none left alive. People used to hunt them, and it was very brave to kill one because they were fierce.
Pipe (material)\n\nA pipe is a long, hollow tube that carries water or other liquids from one place to another. Pipes can be made of metal or plastic. They are hard and stay in one place, unlike a garden hose which is soft and bendy. People use pipes in houses to bring water to sinks and toilets. To cut a pipe, a special tool called a pipe cutter is used. For thin plastic pipes, the cutter works like scissors. For thicker pipes, the cutter has a wheel that rolls around the pipe and cuts it.
Physician\n\nA physician is a person who helps sick people get better. They use medicine to fix hurts and illnesses. Doctors ask you questions about how you feel, like if you have a fever or a pain. They listen to your heart with a special tool called a stethoscope. Sometimes they take a little bit of blood or use a machine that takes pictures of your bones. When they know what is wrong, they give you medicine to help you heal. Doctors work in hospitals, clinics, or their own offices. Some doctors help with all kinds of problems, and some only help with one part of the body, like your tummy or your bones. Nurses help doctors take care of you.
Spring (device)\n\nA spring is a metal thing that can be squeezed. When you let go, it goes back to its old shape. Springs are often made of steel. Some springs are made to push, and some are made to pull. You can find springs in many things, like in the back of a car's tailgate. A long time ago, people used springs in door locks and clocks. A man named Robert Hooke found out that a spring pushes back just as hard as you squeeze it.
London Underground\n\nThe London Underground is a train system that runs under the ground in London. It is the oldest underground train system in the world. It started in 1863. Even though it is called "the Underground," about half of the tracks are above the ground. People also call it "the Tube" because some tunnels are round like tubes. The trains use electricity to move. There are 272 stations where you can get on and off. Many people ride the Underground every day. You can pay with a paper ticket or a special card called an Oyster card. You touch the card on a yellow reader to pay. The Underground has long stairs that move, called escalators, and some have lifts for people in wheelchairs. Smoking is not allowed on the trains or in the stations.
Beaver\n\nA beaver is a big animal that lives both in water and on land. It has a flat tail and strong teeth for cutting trees. Beavers build dams in rivers to make ponds. Their dams help slow down water and make homes for other animals. Beavers live in North America and Europe. There are two kinds: the American beaver and the European beaver. Long ago, people hunted beavers for their soft fur to make hats. Now people are helping beavers come back to places where they almost disappeared.
Archipelago\n\nAn archipelago is a group of islands that are close together. Islands are pieces of land with water all around them. Some archipelagos are made by volcanoes under the sea. Big countries like Japan, the Philippines, and Indonesia are archipelagos. The biggest archipelago is in the cold Arctic Ocean near Canada.
Nylon\n\nNylon is a special kind of thread that people make in factories. It is very strong and does not get wet easily. Nylon was first used to make toothbrushes. Now it is used to make many things like clothes, ropes, fishing nets, carpets, and parachutes. Nylon feels smooth and silky. It was invented a long time ago by a man named Wallace Carothers.
History of Japan\n\nThe history of Japan is a very long story about a country made of many islands. A long, long time ago, people started living in Japan after the last big ice age ended. They made pots and tools from stone and clay. Later, people learned to grow rice in wet fields. Different groups of people fought each other for land. Then a queen named Himiko brought many parts together. Over time, Japan had emperors and warriors called samurai. The samurai were very strong fighters. Japan also learned new things from other countries like China and Portugal. They built big cities and wrote books. Today, Japan is a country with many people and old traditions.
Ural Mountains\n\nThe Ural Mountains are a long line of big hills in Russia. They go from the cold Arctic Ocean in the north down to the warm grasslands in the south. These mountains are so long that they help show where Europe and Asia meet. The tallest part is called Mount Narodnaya.
Concrete\n\nConcrete is a strong material used to make buildings, roads, bridges, and many other things. It is made by mixing cement, sand, gravel, and water together. The mixture looks like thick dough at first. After a few hours, it becomes hard like stone. People use concrete more than any other man-made material in the world. Concrete can be used to make sidewalks, pipes, dams, walls, and even boats. It is very strong when you push on it, but it can break if you pull it apart. To make it stronger, steel bars are sometimes put inside. Concrete has been used for a very long time, even by the Romans thousands of years ago. Some concrete can set underwater. Modern concrete can have special things added to make it set faster, change color, or last longer in cold weather.
Green bean\n\nGreen beans are a vegetable that grows on plants. They are long and green, and you can eat them. People buy them fresh, frozen, or in cans. You can cook green beans in many ways, like boiling or frying them. In some places, people eat them with mushrooms and cream. In other places, they are cooked with garlic. But do not eat too many raw green beans, because they can make you sick.
Noh\n\nNoh is a kind of play from Japan that uses music, dancing, and singing. The people in the play wear masks and move very slowly. All the players are men. Even if the story has a woman, a man wears a woman mask to play her part. Some players are the main hero, some are helpers, and some tell the story to the audience. The music comes from drums and a flute. Noh started a long, long time ago, and people still watch it today.
Fortification\n\nA fortification is a strong wall or building that people make to keep safe during a war. Long ago, people built big walls around their towns to protect the people inside. Some fortifications are called forts or castles. They have thick walls and high towers. Soldiers stand on top of the walls to watch for danger. The last big fortification was a long wall built next to the ocean.
Minority group\n\nA minority group is a group of people that is smaller than the biggest group in a place. They might be different in how they look, what they believe, or the language they speak. Sometimes people in a minority group are treated unfairly because they are different. There are rules that say everyone should be treated nicely, even if they are in a minority group.
Cello\n\nThe cello is a big musical instrument that makes a deep, rich sound. It has four strings and is played with a bow. A person who plays the cello is called a cellist. The cello is part of the string family and is used in orchestras and by some pop musicians. To play it, you sit down and hold the cello between your knees. There is a long stick on the bottom that rests on the floor. The cello can play very low notes and also very high notes. Some famous cellists are Yo-Yo Ma and Jacqueline du Pré.
Advertising\n\nAdvertising is how a company tells people about something they want to sell. You see ads on TV, on the radio, in newspapers, and on big signs outside. Ads try to make you want to buy a toy, a snack, or a game. Sometimes ads are funny so you remember them. Long ago, people painted ads on walls. Today, ads are also on websites and buses. Ads help people know about new things to buy.
Animal husbandry\n\nAnimal husbandry is when people take care of animals on farms. People have done this for a very long time. Farmers raise cows for milk and meat. They raise chickens for eggs and meat. They also raise sheep for wool and meat. Some animals help people carry things. Children can learn how to take care of farm animals from their parents or from groups like 4-H. Taking good care of animals means giving them food, water, and a safe place to live.
Apricot\n\nAn apricot is a small, round fruit that grows on a tree. It is like a plum. The fruit has a fuzzy skin that is orange or yellow. Inside, there is a hard pit. Apricots taste sweet and soft. They are good for you because they have vitamin C and potassium. You can eat them fresh or dried.
Light microscope\n\nA light microscope is a tool that makes tiny things look big. You put a small thing on a flat piece of glass called a slide. The slide sits on a flat part called the stage. Light shines up through the slide. The lenses make the tiny thing look much bigger. You look through a tube called the eyepiece. Some microscopes can take pictures of small things. Many school microscopes can make things look 40 times bigger. Some can make things look hundreds or thousands of times bigger.
Greenhouse effect\n\nThe greenhouse effect is when some gases in the air around Earth trap heat from the sun. This keeps our planet warm, like a blanket. Without it, Earth would be very cold and icy. But people have been burning too much gas and coal, which puts extra heat-trapping gas into the air. This makes Earth get hotter, which is called global warming. Too much heat can cause problems for animals and plants.
Dakar\n\nDakar is a big city in Africa. It is the capital of a country called Senegal. Dakar sits next to the ocean, on the west side of Africa. Big ships come to Dakar to pick up things that are sent to other countries. Many people live in Dakar. The leaders of Senegal work in Dakar, in a big building called the Presidential Palace. Long ago, people from far away came to Dakar and built a fort there. Now it is a busy city where people live, work, and play.
Punk rock\n\nPunk rock is a kind of music that is loud and fast. People who like punk rock often want to break the rules. They wear funny clothes and put colors in their hair. Punk rock songs can be angry and talk about things that are not fair. Some punk rockers make their own music without help from big companies. Punk rock started in New York City a long time ago. Bands like The Ramones and The Clash played punk rock. Today, some punk rock bands mix punk with pop music.
Outback\n\nThe outback is a big, empty part of Australia far away from big cities. There are not many roads or farms there. Some people raise sheep or cows on big pieces of land. Other people dig for rocks and minerals or take visitors to see the wild places. Because the outback is so big and far away, a special doctor service called the Flying Doctor helps people who get sick. The doctors talk on the radio or fly in a plane to help. Some people visit the outback for fun, but they must be very careful and bring lots of food and water.
Teacher\n\nA teacher is a person who helps people learn new things. A teacher often works in a classroom with children or grown-ups. Some teachers teach little kids in kindergarten. Other teachers teach big kids in school. Some teachers teach adults in college. Teachers use boards and computers to show you how to read, write, and count. They help you get smarter every day.
Andorra\n\nAndorra is a small country in the mountains of Europe. It is between Spain and France. About 79,000 people live there. The capital city is Andorra la Vella. Andorra has two rulers: a Spanish bishop and the French president. Many people visit Andorra every year because it is a nice place to go on vacation. The people there speak Catalan, Spanish, and French. Andorra does not have an army. France and Spain help keep it safe. Children go to school from age 6 to 16 for free.
Bathroom\n\nA bathroom is a room in a house where people clean themselves. You can find a toilet, a sink, and a bathtub or shower in a bathroom. People use the bathroom to wash their hands, brush their teeth, take a bath, or use the toilet. Some bathrooms have only a toilet and a sink, and those are called half baths. A bathroom can be connected to a bedroom for just that person to use. Long ago, people did not have bathrooms in their homes. They went to special buildings to take baths.
Apollo\n\nApollo is a god from old Greek stories. He is one of the most important gods. He is the god of music, archery, healing, and the sun. Apollo is a young man with no beard, and he is very handsome. He wears a wreath made of laurel leaves on his head. He often plays a stringed instrument called a lyre. His twin sister is Artemis, the goddess of hunting. Apollo was born on a small island called Delos. He killed a big snake called Python with his bow and arrows. Then he built his temple at Delphi. At Delphi, a priestess called the Pythia would tell people about the future. Apollo also loved a nymph named Daphne, but she turned into a laurel tree to get away from him. That is why the laurel tree is one of his symbols. Another symbol is the raven.
Renaissance art\n\nRenaissance art is a kind of art made a long time ago, from about 1400 to 1600. Many of the most famous paintings in the world come from this time. Italy, especially a city called Florence, was where a lot of this art was made. Painters from Belgium also made beautiful pictures. They used oil paints, which made colors look very real. One famous painting from this time shows a woman with a mysterious smile. People still love to look at Renaissance art today.
Honour\n\nHonour is when people think you are a good person who does the right thing. Long ago, knights had rules about how to be brave and fair, and that was called honour. In some places, people would fight to protect their family's good name. Today, honour means doing what is kind and honest, so others can trust you.
Tadpole\n\nA tadpole is a baby frog that lives in the water. It comes from a tiny egg. Tadpoles swim by moving their tails side to side. Most tadpoles eat plants like algae on rocks. Some also eat tiny animals. After a while, tadpoles grow back legs first, then front legs. Then they are called froglets. Froglets grow lungs to breathe air and lose their tails. Their mouths get bigger and their insides change. They grow up to become adult frogs. Some tadpoles turn into frogs in a few weeks, and some take many months.
Icon\n\nAn icon is a special picture that has a religious meaning. It often shows a holy person like Jesus, Mary, or a saint. People in Orthodox Christian churches use icons to help them pray. They think an icon is like a window to see God. Icons are usually painted on a flat piece of wood. The artist makes the picture very carefully so it lasts a long time. Some icons are made of gold or silver. When a candle is lit near an icon, the gold shines and makes the picture look bright. Some people believe that praying in front of an icon can bring help or healing. Other religions, like Hinduism, also use holy pictures and statues.
Togo\n\nTogo is a small country in West Africa. It is next to Ghana, Benin, and Burkina Faso. The capital city is Lomé. About 9 million people live there. Many people speak French. Togo has lots of monkeys, snakes, and lizards. Farmers grow food like coffee, cocoa, cotton, yams, and corn. People also eat peanuts, plantains, and sweet pastries. Togo became its own country in 1960.
Canyon\n\nA canyon is a very big and deep crack in the ground. It is like a giant valley with steep sides. Most canyons are made by rivers that flow for a very long time. The water slowly takes away rocks and dirt, making the crack deeper and wider. Some canyons are made by earthquakes. The Grand Canyon is a very famous big canyon. You can see layers of different colored rocks on the canyon walls.
Lichen\n\nA lichen is a living thing that is made of two different parts working together. One part is a fungus, and the other part is a tiny plant or bacteria that can make food from sunlight. The fungus holds water and protects the tiny plant. The tiny plant makes food for both of them. Lichens can be found almost everywhere: on rocks, walls, trees, and even on the ground. They look like flat patches or little bushes. They can be many colors, like gray, green, orange, or yellow. Lichens do not need much water. They can dry out and then come back to life when it rains. Some lichens grow very slowly and can live for a very long time, even more than 1000 years. Reindeer eat lichens in the winter. People also use lichens to make dyes, medicines, and some foods.
Suffrage\n\nSuffrage is the right to vote. When you grow up, you can vote for who you want to be the leader. A long time ago, not everyone could vote. Some people were not allowed because of their skin color or if they were a boy or a girl. Today, most places let all grown-ups vote. Suffrage also means you can try to become a leader yourself.
Atlanta\n\nAtlanta is a big city in the United States. It is the capital of the state of Georgia. Atlanta is home to many big companies like Coca-Cola and CNN. The city has the busiest airport in the world. Atlanta was built on land that once belonged to Native Americans. During a war long ago, the city was burned down but was built again. That is why Atlanta is sometimes called the Phoenix City, like a bird that rises from ashes. Today, many people live and work in Atlanta.
Coral reef\n\nA coral reef is a big underwater home made of tiny animals called corals. Some corals are alive, and some are old and hard. Coral reefs are very colorful and look beautiful. Many colorful fish and other sea animals live there. People like to swim and look at coral reefs with special masks and tubes. Coral reefs grow in warm, sunny water near the top of the ocean. They are often close to land. Dirt and poison from boats and land can hurt the corals and make them turn white. Ships can also crash into them. Many countries try to protect coral reefs by being careful near them.
Nonprofit organization\n\nA nonprofit organization is a group that does not use its money to make owners rich. Instead, it uses the money to help people or do good things. Some nonprofits give food, clothes, or a place to stay to people who need help. Others help animals or keep the environment clean. Some nonprofits are small, like a neighborhood group. Others are big, like a church or a university. People who work for a nonprofit may get paid, but some are volunteers who work for free. A nonprofit can also be called an NGO when it works on big world problems. Wikipedia is a nonprofit group.
Recorder\n\nA recorder is a musical instrument that looks like a tube with one end bigger than the other. You put the big end in your mouth and blow to make a sound. It is a kind of flute. Long ago, people in Europe played the recorder to sound like bird songs. Famous music writers like Bach and Vivaldi wrote songs for it. Later, people stopped playing it because other instruments were louder. But in the 1900s, people started playing it again. One reason is that it is easy for children to learn. Many schools use plastic recorders to teach music. Recorders come in different sizes, from very small to very big. The smallest ones make high sounds, and the biggest ones make low sounds. People often play recorders together in groups, like duets or orchestras.
So Francisco River\n\nThe So Francisco River is a very long river in Brazil. It is about 3,100 kilometers long, which is like driving a car for many days. Many smaller rivers flow into it. This river is very important for Brazil because it connects different parts of the country, like the warm Southeast and the dry Northeast.
Primate\n\nPrimates are a group of animals that includes monkeys, apes, and humans. Most primates live in forests and have hands with five fingers and flat fingernails. They are covered in fur, but humans have less fur on their bodies. Primates can see many colors, like red and blue. Some primates are small, like lemurs and bush babies, and some are big, like gorillas and chimpanzees. Humans are special because we can talk using words, while other primates make sounds and gestures to communicate.
Old English\n\nOld English is a very old way of talking and writing that people used in England a long, long time ago. It sounds very different from the English we speak today. It is closer to German than to our English. People called Anglo-Saxons spoke it. They came from places that are now Germany and Denmark. Old English has many hard words and tricky rules. Not many people wrote it down at first. Later, some church men wrote it using letters like we use now. A famous story called "Beowulf" was written in Old English. After some new people came to England, Old English slowly changed into Middle English, and then into the English we know today.
Automobile\n\nA car, also called an automobile, is a machine with wheels that people ride in to go places. Most cars have four wheels and can carry up to eight people. Cars run on roads and are smaller than trucks or buses. Cars need energy to move. Many cars use gasoline, which comes from old plants that turned into oil deep underground. Some cars use electricity stored in a battery. Electric cars are cleaner because they do not make dirty smoke. There are also cars that use both gasoline and electricity, called hybrids. Cars have brakes to stop. Electric cars have special brakes that can make electricity when they slow down. People use cars to go to work, school, or on trips. Cars are faster than walking or riding a bike for long distances.
Latitude\n\nLatitude is a way to measure how far north or south a place is on Earth. The equator is a line around the middle of Earth, and it is 0 degrees. Places north of the equator are north latitude, and places south are south latitude. The North Pole is 90 degrees north, and the South Pole is 90 degrees south. People use latitude and another measure called longitude to find any place on Earth.
Fountain\n\nA fountain is a man-made thing that holds water. Water comes from a pipe or a hole and fills a bowl or a basin. Sometimes the water shoots up high into the air like a spray. Some fountains have statues or sculptures. Long ago, people made stone basins to keep water for drinking. Today, you can find drinking fountains in schools, libraries, and parks. You bend down and drink the water right from the stream. Some fountains have a tap that you turn on. They give us clean water to drink.
Soul music\n\nSoul music is a kind of music that mixes fast beats, church singing, and pop songs. It was made in the 1960s in America by black musicians. In soul music, one person sings a line and others answer back. People clap their hands and move their bodies. The singer uses a strong voice. The songs are about love, dancing, and life. Some soul music uses horns and saxophones. Ray Charles made one of the first soul songs. Today, singers like Adele also sing soul music.
Visayas\n\nThe Visayas is a group of islands in the middle of the Philippines. People who live there are called Visayans. The islands are in the middle of the sea, with the Philippine Sea on one side and the Sulu Sea on the other. The big islands are Panay, Negros, Cebu, Bohol, Leyte, and Samar. The Visayas has three parts: Western, Central, and Eastern. Each part has a big city where people go for work and fun.
Fear\n\nFear is a feeling you get when you are scared. When you feel fear, your body wants to run away or fight. Fear can be good because it stops you from doing dangerous things, like jumping off a high place. But fear can also be bad if it stops you from doing something you need to do, like going to the doctor. Some people have a very strong fear called a phobia. You can get over a phobia by facing the thing you are scared of, little by little, until you are not scared anymore.
Ancient history\n\nAncient history is about things that happened a very long time ago, before the Middle Ages. It started when people first learned to write, over 5000 years ago. Writing was a big invention because it let people keep track of what happened. Before writing, we only have old tools and buildings to look at. People who study old things by digging them up are called archaeologists. They find pots, tools, and weapons made long ago. Some old writings tell us stories from that time, but many are lost because they were written by hand and not printed.
Alternative rock\n\nAlternative rock is a kind of music that people play with guitars and drums. It started a long time ago, around 1980. Some bands that play alternative rock are Nirvana, Radiohead, and Coldplay. This music can sound different from other rock music. Some people like to listen to it on the radio or at concerts.
Blood\n\nBlood is a red liquid inside your body. Your heart pushes blood all around your body. Blood brings food and air to every part of you. It also takes away the stuff your body does not need. There are about 5 liters of blood in a grown-up person. Blood has red cells, white cells, and tiny pieces called platelets. Red cells carry air from your lungs to the rest of your body. White cells fight germs that make you sick. Platelets help stop bleeding when you get a cut. Blood is made inside your bones, in a soft part called bone marrow. Your liver helps make the liquid part of blood.
Managua\n\nManagua is a big city in a country called Nicaragua. It is the capital city, which means the leaders of the country live and work there. Managua sits next to a big lake called Lake Managua. The name Managua means "near water" in an old language. Many people live there, and they speak Spanish. The city has had big earthquakes that knocked down old buildings. People in Managua use big statues and monuments to tell each other where places are. Sometimes the statues get knocked down too, so it can be hard for visitors to find their way.
Reproduction\n\nReproduction is how living things make new babies. Some animals need a mommy and a daddy to make a baby. That is called sexual reproduction. Other living things, like tiny germs, can split into two to make a new one all by themselves. That is called asexual reproduction.
Respect\n\nRespect is a good feeling you have for someone or something that is important. It means you think they are special and you care about them. When you listen to your mom or dad, that shows respect. When you say please and thank you, that shows respect too. Respect is treating others the way you want to be treated.
History of astronomy\n\nThe history of astronomy is about how people long ago looked at the sky at night and tried to understand what they saw. Long ago, people in Babylon watched the stars and planets move. They gave names to groups of stars, which we call constellations. They noticed seven bright things that moved: the Sun, the Moon, and five planets. Later, Greek thinkers made models of the universe. Some thought the Earth was the center of everything. But a man named Aristarchus said the Sun is the center and the Earth goes around it. Most people did not believe him. Much later, in 1543, a man named Copernicus said the same thing again. He said the Sun is the center of our solar system. After that, more people started to believe that the Earth goes around the Sun. Over time, scientists learned more about the stars and planets with bigger telescopes.
Algiers\n\nAlgiers is a big city in Africa. It is the capital of a country called Algeria. Algiers sits on the coast, next to the sea. The name Algiers means "The Islands" in Arabic. Long ago, there were four small islands near the city. Now those islands are part of the land. Many people live in Algiers.
Graffiti\n\nGraffiti is drawings or words made on walls or other places outside. People often use paint or spray paint from a can to make graffiti. Sometimes it is a person's name written in a fancy way. Sometimes it is a big picture or a message. Some graffiti is allowed, but other times people make it without asking, which is not allowed. Long ago, people even wrote on walls in ancient Rome. Today, some graffiti artists are very famous.
Horse\n\nA horse is a big, strong animal that eats grass and other plants. People have kept horses for a very long time, over 5000 years. Horses can run fast, up to 30 miles an hour. A boy horse is called a stallion, and a girl horse is called a mare. A baby horse is called a foal. Horses have hard feet called hooves, and sometimes they wear metal shoes to protect them. People use horses for riding, pulling carts, and working on farms. Some horses are pets, and some race in sports. Horses live about 25 to 30 years.
Greater Antilles\n\nThe Greater Antilles are a group of big islands in the warm Caribbean Sea. The four biggest islands are Cuba, Jamaica, Hispaniola, and Puerto Rico. Hispaniola has two countries on it: Haiti and the Dominican Republic. Some smaller islands near them are also part of the group. The Cayman Islands are often included too. These islands are made of hard rock from the ground, not from volcanoes or coral.
Census\n\nA census is a way to count all the people who live in a place. It helps the government know how many people there are and where they live. In some countries, they do a census every 10 years. In other countries, they do it every 5 years. The word census comes from a very old language called Latin.
Crossword\n\nA crossword is a puzzle made of black and white squares. You write words in the white squares, one letter at a time. Each word has a clue that tells you what to write. The clues are next to the grid of squares. Some clues are easy, like "Sheep sound" for "Baa." Some clues are harder and use riddles. Crosswords are in newspapers, magazines, and on the Internet. People solve them for fun.
Court\n\nA court is a place where people go to solve big arguments. Grown-ups called judges listen to both sides and decide what is fair. Some courts decide if someone broke a rule. Other courts decide who gets to keep a toy or where a child should live. The court is inside a special building called a courthouse.
English language\n\nEnglish is a language that people use to talk and write. It started a long time ago in a place called England. Many people speak English today. It is the main language in America, Canada, Britain, Australia, and New Zealand. About 375 million people speak English as their first language. Even more people learn English as a second language to talk with others from different countries. English is used for science, travel, and business all over the world. The words in English come from many other languages like German, French, Latin, and Greek. English has 26 letters in its alphabet. People write English from left to right. Some words in English are spelled the same but sound different, like "through" and "rough." English has many famous stories and plays, like those by William Shakespeare.
Ice skating\n\nIce skating is when you slide on ice with special boots that have metal blades on the bottom. People wear these boots, called ice skates, to glide and spin on ice. Some people do figure skating, where they jump and twirl. Others do speed skating, where they race very fast. Hockey players also wear ice skates to play a game on ice. Ice skating started a long time ago in cold places like Scandinavia and the Netherlands. Today, many people go ice skating for fun at rinks or in shows.
Hotel\n\nA hotel is a big building with many rooms where people can sleep when they are away from home. You can stay in a hotel for one night or many nights. Some hotels have a swimming pool for fun. A motel is a kind of hotel where people who drive cars can park right outside their room. A smaller hotel is sometimes called an inn. Hotels give you a bed, a bathroom, and a place to rest.
Montreal\n\nMontreal is a big city in Canada. It sits on an island in the Saint Lawrence River. Most people there speak French. In the middle of the city is a hill called Mount Royal. Many old buildings are in the Old City, and you can ride in a horse-drawn carriage. Montreal has lots of festivals, like the Montreal Jazz Festival. The circus group Cirque du Soleil is from there. Ice hockey was invented in Montreal, and the city has its own team called the Montreal Canadiens.
Burundi\n\nBurundi is a small country in Africa. The capital city is Gitega. People there speak Kirundi, Swahili, French, and English. About 14 million people live in Burundi. It is one of the poorest countries in the world. Burundi is landlocked, which means it has no ocean next to it. It sits on a big flat land called a plateau. The Nile River starts in Burundi. There are two national parks where animals live.
Influenza\n\nInfluenza is another name for the flu. The flu is a sickness that can make you cough, sneeze, have a fever, and feel very tired. It is caused by tiny germs called viruses. People catch the flu when a sick person coughs or sneezes near them. The flu can be dangerous for little kids and old people. There is no medicine that makes the flu go away, but a doctor can give you medicine to help you feel better. A flu shot can help stop you from getting the flu. The flu changes every year, so you need a new shot each year. Most people get the flu in the winter.
Container\n\nA container is something you can put other things inside. A box is a container. A bag is a container. A jar is a container. A big metal box that goes on a ship or a truck is also a container. People use containers to keep things safe and to move them from one place to another.
Autumn\n\nAutumn is the season after summer and before winter. Some people call it fall. The weather gets colder and windier. Leaves on many trees turn yellow, red, or brown and then fall off. Farmers pick their crops in autumn. Many children start a new school year in autumn. Animals look for extra food to store for winter. The days and nights are the same length in autumn.
Hindustani language\n\nHindustani is a language that people speak in India and Pakistan. It can be written in different ways. One way is called Hindi, and another way is called Urdu. Hindi and Urdu sound almost the same when you talk, but they use different letters. Sometimes people write Hindustani with the same letters we use in English. If one person speaks Hindi and another speaks Urdu, they can understand each other.
Victoria Falls\n\nVictoria Falls is a very big waterfall in Africa. It is on a river called the Zambezi. The waterfall is very tall and very wide. The local name for the falls means "the smoke that thunders" because there is so much mist. In the dry season, the waterfall almost dries up.
Bering Sea\n\nThe Bering Sea is a big part of the ocean near Alaska and Russia. It is very cold and has lots of water. Many animals live there, like whales, seals, walruses, and polar bears. Many birds also live there, like puffins. People catch fish like salmon and crab in the Bering Sea. A long time ago, when the ice age made the sea level lower, people could walk from Asia to North America across a land bridge where the Bering Sea is now.
Lake Vostok\n\nLake Vostok is a big lake under the ice in Antarctica. It is very deep, under 4,000 meters of ice. The water is very cold but stays liquid because the ice pushes down hard. The lake has a lot of oxygen in it, more than most lakes. Scientists think that if any tiny living things live there, they must be very special to handle all that oxygen. This lake is like some icy moons far away in space.
Early childhood education\n\nEarly childhood education is about teaching little kids from when they are babies until they are about eight years old. During this time, children learn many new things like talking, playing with others, and getting ready for school. Teachers and grown-ups help kids learn by reading stories, singing songs, and playing games. This kind of learning started a long time ago in Europe. Different people have different ideas about the best way to teach young children.
Tree\n\nA tree is a very tall plant with a hard trunk and branches. Trees have roots that go into the ground to get water and food. The trunk is the main part, covered with bark to keep it safe. Branches grow out from the trunk, and leaves grow on the branches. Leaves are usually green and help the tree make food from sunlight. Trees can live for many years, some even thousands of years. They give us shade, wood, and clean air. Many animals live in trees. In autumn, some trees lose their leaves, and new leaves grow back in spring.
Mount Kailash\n\nMount Kailash is a tall mountain in Tibet. It is a very special place for many people. Hindus believe it is the home of Lord Shiva and his family. People think no one should climb it, so no one has ever climbed to the top. Every year, people walk around the mountain to show respect.
Hat\n\nA hat is something you wear on your head. There are many kinds of hats. Some hats keep the sun off your face. Other hats keep your head warm in winter. People wear different hats for different jobs. A chef wears a tall white hat. A firefighter wears a hard hat to stay safe. Some hats are just for fun or for dressing up. You can take a hat off when you go inside a house or a school.
Sumo\n\nSumo is a sport from Japan where two big, strong people try to push each other out of a circle. The circle is on the ground and is made of clay. The people who do sumo are called wrestlers. They wear a special belt and try to make the other person fall down or step out of the circle. Sumo tournaments happen many times a year in different cities in Japan. The best wrestlers are called grand champions. Some wrestlers come from other countries too.
Computer science\n\nComputer science is about how computers work and how people tell them what to do. People who study computer science learn to give computers steps, called algorithms, to solve problems. For example, to sort a deck of cards, you can use an algorithm that checks each pair and swaps them if they are in the wrong order. Some algorithms are fast, and some are slow. Computer scientists also ask questions to find easier ways to do things. They use math and logic to make computers help people.
French language\n\nFrench is a language that people speak in France and many other countries. About 220 million people around the world speak French. French uses the same letters as English, but some letters have little marks on them. Some French words look like English words because English took many words from French long ago. For example, the French word for 'yes' is 'oui', which sounds like 'we'. French is a pretty language that many children learn in school.
Freetown\n\nFreetown is a big city in Africa. It is the capital of a country called Sierra Leone. Freetown sits next to the ocean, and big ships come to its port. The city was first built by people who were once slaves and became free. They came from far away to start a new life. Today, many people live and work in Freetown. There is a famous old cotton tree in the city that has been there for a very long time. Freetown also has a big airport, but you have to take a boat or a helicopter to get there from the city.
Humidity\n\nHumidity is how much water is in the air. When the air feels wet and sticky, that is high humidity. When the air feels dry, that is low humidity. Deserts have low humidity, and hot, rainy places have high humidity. High humidity makes it harder for your body to cool down by sweating. Scientists measure humidity with a special tool called a hygrometer.
Trombone\n\nA trombone is a musical instrument made of shiny metal. It looks like a big trumpet but has a long slide that you push and pull to make different sounds. You buzz your lips into the mouthpiece to play it. The trombone can make low, deep sounds and is very loud. It is used in orchestras, bands, and jazz music. A person who plays the trombone is called a trombonist.
Magazine\n\nA magazine is a kind of book that comes out many times each year. Each new copy has different stories and pictures inside. Magazines are printed on paper and often have bright colors on every page. Some magazines come with little gifts for the people who buy them. You can get a magazine by having it sent to your house, or you can buy one at a store. There are magazines about many things, like toys, animals, or cars.
Congo River\n\nThe Congo River is a very big river in Africa. It is the largest river in Africa and the second longest on the continent. The river flows through a huge rain forest, which is the second largest in the world. Many animals and plants live in the forest near the river. The river gets its name from an old kingdom called Kongo. Two countries, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Republic of the Congo, are named after the river. The river starts high in the mountains and from big lakes. It flows west and then bends south, passing by cities like Kinshasa and Brazzaville. At the end, it flows into the ocean. People use the river to move goods like copper, palm oil, sugar, coffee, and cotton on boats. Some parts of the river have waterfalls that stop boats, so trains carry the goods around them. The river also helps make electricity for people to use.
Prehistory\n\nPrehistory is the time before people learned to write. It lasted a very, very long time, from when the Earth was new until people started writing things down. The word "prehistory" means "before history." People did not have books or paper back then, so we do not have any stories written by them. To learn about prehistory, scientists look at old tools, bones, and drawings on cave walls. During prehistory, people lived in groups called tribes. They lived in caves or tents made from animal skins. They used stones and bones to make tools for hunting and cutting. They made fire to cook food and stay warm. They wore clothes made from animal skins. Prehistory ended when people began to write, which happened at different times in different places.
Fictional universe\n\nA fictional universe is a made-up world where stories happen. It is not real, but people pretend it is real when they read books, watch movies, or play games. In a made-up world, things can be different from our world. There might be magic, spaceships, or talking animals. Many stories share the same made-up world. For example, Harry Potter stories all happen in a world with wizards and magic schools. Star Wars stories happen in a galaxy far, far away with spaceships and robots. Made-up worlds can be in the past, the present, or the future. They are inside books and movies, which are inside our real world.
Sauce\n\nA sauce is a liquid mixture you put on food to make it taste better. You do not eat sauce by itself. It adds flavor and makes food look nice. People all over the world use sauces. Some sauces are poured from a bottle, like ketchup on spaghetti. Gravy is a brown sauce you eat with meat. Mayonnaise is a cold sauce. Pesto is a green sauce made with herbs and garlic. Some sauces are sweet and go on desserts, like apple sauce. A cook who makes sauces is called a saucier.
Puzzle\n\nA puzzle is a game that makes you think. You have to look at colors, shapes, or numbers to find the answer. Some puzzles are word searches or crosswords in newspapers. Other puzzles are toys you hold in your hands or games on a computer. Puzzles help your brain get stronger.
Mississippi River\n\nThe Mississippi River is a very long river in the United States. Its name means "big river" in a Native American language. The river starts at a lake in Minnesota and flows south all the way to the Gulf of Mexico. It passes through many states like Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, Illinois, Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, Arkansas, and Mississippi. Long ago, big boats called steamboats carried people and things on the river. The river is in a famous book called Huckleberry Finn.
Auditory system\n\nThe auditory system is the part of your body that lets you hear sounds. Your ear is the part that does the hearing. The outside part of your ear is called the pinna. It is made of soft, bendy skin and helps catch sound. Sound goes inside your ear and hits a thin skin called the eardrum. Tiny bones inside your ear help make the sound bigger. Then the sound goes to a part called the cochlea, which is filled with liquid. The cochlea changes the sound into messages for your brain. Your ear also has special loops that help you keep your balance so you do not fall down.
Scaffold\n\nA scaffold is a thing that people build to help them work on tall buildings. It is like a strong frame that you can stand on. Long ago, scaffolds were made of wood or bamboo. Today, many scaffolds are made of metal. Workers use scaffolds to paint walls, fix roofs, or clean windows high up. The scaffold holds them safely so they do not fall.
Bamboo\n\nBamboo is a giant grass that grows very tall and has a hard, wood-like stem. It grows in many warm places like Africa, America, and Asia. Bamboo can grow very fast—sometimes more than one meter in a day! Its stem is hollow and has bumps called joints. Bamboo is used to build houses, bridges, and boats. It is also the main food of giant pandas. People can eat bamboo shoots, but they are usually cooked first.
Taipei\n\nTaipei is a big city in Taiwan. It is the capital city, which means it is the most important city in the country. Many people live there. Taipei has a tall building called Taipei 101. There are also night markets where you can buy food and toys. The city has trains, buses, and airports to help people travel. Taipei has many parks and hot springs. The weather is warm and rainy. Sometimes the air can be a little smoky from cars and scooters.
Defensive wall\n\nA defensive wall is a big, strong wall built to keep a city safe from bad people who might want to hurt it. Long ago, many towns had walls all around them. People could walk on top of the wall to watch for danger. Some walls are very, very long, like the Great Wall of China. These walls show that the people inside are strong and free.
The Starry Night\n\nThe Starry Night is a famous painting of the night sky. It shows a big moon and many bright stars. The sky looks like it is moving with swirls of blue and yellow. A man named Vincent van Gogh painted it a long time ago. He used thick paint to make the stars and moon look very bright. There is a dark tree and a small town below the sky. The painting makes you feel like you are looking up at the stars at night.
Double bass\n\nThe double bass is a very big musical instrument with strings. It looks like a giant violin. People play it in orchestras, jazz bands, and some country bands. It makes low, deep sounds. The double bass is made of wood and has a long neck. It has four thick strings. Players can use a bow to make the strings sing, or they can pluck the strings with their fingers. In jazz, players often pluck the strings. Some players plug their double bass into a big speaker to make it louder. The double bass has many names, like upright bass or bass fiddle.
Biathlon\n\nBiathlon is a sport that has two parts. In winter biathlon, people ski fast on snow and then stop to shoot at targets with a rifle. They have to be good at both skiing and shooting to win. There is also summer biathlon, where people run instead of ski and still shoot at targets.
Lake Albert (Africa)\n\nLake Albert is a big lake in Africa. It sits between two countries: Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The lake is very long and wide. It is one of the biggest lakes in Africa. Water from other lakes flows into it. The water from Lake Albert flows out and becomes a river. There are swamps at one end of the lake. Big mountains stand near the lake. People use boats to travel on the lake. There is oil under the lake that people want to use.
Supergiant\n\nA supergiant is a very, very big star in the sky. It is much bigger than our Sun. Some supergiants are so big that they could fit inside the path of Mercury around the Sun. The biggest ones are even larger than the path of Jupiter. Supergiants are old stars that used to be smaller. When they run out of fuel in the middle, they grow bigger and change color. They can be red, blue, or yellow. Yellow supergiants are the rarest kind. Many of the bright stars you see at night are supergiants. They are easy to spot because they shine so brightly.
Watch\n\nA watch is a small clock that you can wear on your wrist or carry in your pocket. It helps you know what time it is. Some watches have hands that point to numbers, and some show numbers like a little computer. Many people wear a watch every day. A watch can be a pretty thing to wear, like a bracelet. Some watches are very special and cost a lot of money. Nurses wear a watch that hangs from their shirt. Long ago, watches had springs inside to make them work. Now, many watches use a tiny piece of rock called quartz to keep the time very well. There are also smartwatches that can do things like a phone.
Prophecy\n\nA prophecy is a guess about what will happen later. In some religions, people think a prophecy is a message from God. Some prophecies are about big things, like the end of the world or a big storm. They can be hard to understand. Long ago in Greece, people called oracles made prophecies. A famous prophet named Nostradamus lived many years ago. Sometimes people make wrong prophecies. Even smart people like scientists and inventors can be wrong about the future. If you believe something will happen, you might act in a way that makes it happen. That is called a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Science\n\nScience is how we learn about the world around us. Scientists look at things very carefully, measure them, and do experiments to find out how things work. There are many kinds of science. Some science is about animals and plants. Some is about stars and space. Some is about rocks and the ground. Some is about how people think and act. Science helps us understand why things happen and what will happen next. People who do science are called scientists. They use special tools and ask lots of questions. Science has been around for a very long time, and it keeps helping us learn new things every day.
Origami\n\nOrigami is the art of folding paper to make shapes and animals. You start with a flat piece of paper and fold it many times without cutting or using glue. People make paper cranes, boats, and flowers. Some people fold many small pieces and put them together to make big models. Origami started a long time ago in China and Japan. People gave folded paper to friends for good luck. Today, many people all over the world enjoy folding paper.
Line\n\nA line is a path that goes on and on. It has length but no width. A line can be straight or curved. A straight line is the shortest way between two points. A curved line is called a curve, like the edge of a circle. A line segment is a part of a line. Lines are named after points on them.
Peanut\n\nA peanut is a plant that grows small, brown, hard shells with seeds inside. It is not a nut, but a legume, like beans and peas. The peanut plant has yellow flowers that bend down and push into the ground. The peanut grows under the ground, so people also call it a groundnut. The shell has two or three seeds inside. Each seed has two soft, light-colored parts covered by a thin red-brown skin. Peanuts taste buttery and nutty. People eat peanuts as a snack, often roasted and salted. They also make peanut butter by grinding the seeds. Some peanut butter is chunky, and some is creamy. Peanuts are used in candy, cookies, and pies. Farmers in Africa and Asia grow most of the world's peanuts. Peanuts are good for you because they have healthy fats and vitamins.
Amnesia\n\nAmnesia is when a person cannot remember things. It can happen if the brain gets hurt, if someone is very sick, or if something very scary happens. Some people forget things for a little while, and some forget for a long time. There is no medicine that fixes amnesia, but sometimes it gets better on its own.
Organization\n\nAn organization is a group of people who work together. When people work together, they can do more than one person alone. Organizations have leaders to help everyone work as a team. Putting things in the right order is called organizing.
Stethoscope\n\nA stethoscope is a tool that doctors use to listen to your heart and your breathing. It has a long tube that goes to the doctor's ears. The doctor puts the round end on your chest or back. The stethoscope helps the doctor hear the sounds inside your body. The first stethoscope was made a long time ago by a doctor in France. Now, some stethoscopes can even help find heart problems very fast.
Andes\n\nThe Andes are a very long chain of tall mountains in South America. They stretch along the west side of the continent, from the bottom near Argentina and Chile all the way up to Colombia. The Andes are the longest mountain range in the world, and the second highest after the Himalayas. The highest peak is called Aconcagua, which is so tall that snow stays on top all year. Some of the mountains are volcanoes, but most are quiet now. The Andes have different weather in different parts. In the north it is warm and rainy, and rainforests grow there. In the middle it is dry, and in the south it is cold and wet. Many animals live in the Andes, like llamas, alpacas, and the big Andean condor bird. People also live in the mountains and grow potatoes and other food.
Music\n\nMusic is a kind of art that uses sounds put together in a way people like. People make music by singing with their voices or playing instruments like the piano, guitar, drums, or bass. Music often has a beat you can tap your foot to, and it can make you feel happy or want to dance. Long ago, people made music by clapping their hands or hitting stones together. The first musical instrument was probably the human voice. People have been making music for a very long time, even in the stone age.
Roman numerals\n\nRoman numerals are a way of writing numbers using letters. Long ago, people in ancient Rome used them. Today, we still see Roman numerals on some clocks. For example, the big clock called Big Ben has Roman numerals for the hours. The letters I, V, X, L, C, D, and M stand for numbers. I is 1, V is 5, X is 10, L is 50, C is 100, D is 500, and M is 1000. To write a number, you put the letters together. Sometimes a smaller letter before a bigger one means you take away. For instance, IV means 4 because you take 1 from 5. IX means 9 because you take 1 from 10. There is also a special letter for zero, which is N. Roman numerals are not used as much today, but they are still fun to learn.
Latin\n\nLatin is a very old language that people in Ancient Rome used to speak. It was the main language of the Roman Empire a long time ago. Today, no one speaks Latin as their first language, so it is called a 'dead language.' But some people still learn and use Latin. The Catholic Church uses Latin in some of its services. Scientists use Latin to name new plants and animals. Doctors use Latin words for bones and diseases. Many English words come from Latin. Spanish, French, Italian, Portuguese, and Romanian are languages that grew from Latin. They are called Romance languages.
Nail (anatomy)\n\nA nail is a hard part of the body at the tips of your fingers and toes. Most people have ten nails. Fingernails and toenails are made of the same stuff as hair and skin. Toenails grow much slower than fingernails. Nails never stop growing, so you have to cut them sometimes. It does not hurt to cut nails because they have no nerves. Some people paint their nails to make them look pretty. Sometimes a nail can grow into the skin and hurt, and a doctor can help fix it.
Climatology\n\nClimatology is about learning how the weather is over a long time. It is not about today's weather, but about what the weather is usually like in a place. Long ago, people in Greece started to study this. Knowing about climate helps us guess what the weather might be like soon.
Ape\n\nAn ape is a big animal that lives in Africa and Southeast Asia. Apes are mammals, which means they have hair and drink milk from their mothers when they are babies. Apes do not have tails, but monkeys do. Apes have long arms that can swing from tree to tree. They eat fruits, nuts, seeds, leaves, and sometimes small animals. Apes are very smart and can use tools.
Ocean current\n\nAn ocean current is water in the ocean that keeps moving from one place to another. Wind, how warm or cold the water is, and the moon's pull make the water move. Some currents flow near the top of the ocean, and some flow deep down. They can travel very far, like the Gulf Stream in the Atlantic Ocean. Ocean currents help move warm and cold water around the world.
Lesotho\n\nLesotho is a small country in Africa. It is all surrounded by South Africa. Lesotho has no ocean or big lake. It is very high up with many mountains. People go there to ski in winter. The capital city is called Maseru. About 1,800,000 people live there. Lesotho makes electricity from water and sells some water to South Africa.
Art Deco\n\nArt Deco is a way of making buildings and things look fancy and new. It was used a long time ago, in the 1920s and 1930s. People made tall buildings with straight lines and shiny shapes. Some buildings have pretty pictures on the walls. The Chrysler Building in New York City is an Art Deco building. It has a pointy top that shines. The Golden Gate Bridge also has Art Deco parts on its towers. Art Deco made things look fast and smooth, like a car.
Flag\n\nA flag is a piece of cloth with colors and shapes on it. People put flags on poles to show what group or country they belong to. Flags were first used a long, long time ago in China and in the Roman Empire. The colors and shapes on a flag have special meanings. For example, the flag of Japan has a white cloth with a red circle in the middle. The red circle stands for the sun, and the white stands for being honest and clean. There are many kinds of flags.
Famine\n\nFamine is when many people do not have enough food to eat. When people do not get food, their bodies get weak and they can get very sick. Famine happens most often in poor countries where people grow their own food, like in parts of Africa and Latin America.
Light bulb\n\nA light bulb is a thing that makes light from electricity. It helps you see in the dark. Long ago, people used candles and oil lamps to see at night. Thomas Edison and Joseph Swan made a better light bulb that people could use in their homes. The first kind of light bulb is called an incandescent bulb. It has a thin wire inside that gets very hot and glows bright. But most of the energy it uses turns into heat, not light. Another kind is a fluorescent bulb, which is a glass tube that makes light in a different way and uses less electricity. A newer kind is an LED bulb, which is very good at making light and lasts a long time. Light bulbs are used in houses, streets, and even in space.
Kazakhstan\n\nKazakhstan is a big country in the middle of Asia and a little bit in Europe. It is the biggest country in the world that does not touch any ocean. The capital city is Astana. People there speak Kazakh and Russian. Many people follow the religion of Islam. Long ago, people in Kazakhstan moved around with their animals, especially horses. Today, Kazakhstan has lots of oil, gas, and metals like gold and copper. The Aral Sea near Kazakhstan used to be big but got smaller. Now people are trying to help it come back.
Philadelphia\n\nPhiladelphia is a big city in the United States. It is in the state of Pennsylvania. Long ago, it was the capital of the whole country. Many important things happened there. The Liberty Bell and Independence Hall are in Philadelphia. People can visit them. A famous man named Benjamin Franklin lived there. He started a library and a hospital. He also helped write the Declaration of Independence. The city has many neighborhoods. Some are old and some are new. There are big sports stadiums where people watch baseball and football. The city is near a big river called the Delaware River. Many people live and work in Philadelphia.
Drawing\n\nDrawing is a way to make a picture by putting lines on paper. People draw with pencils, pens, chalk, or charcoal. You can draw things you see, like a house or a cat, or make up your own pictures. Drawing has been around for a very long time, even since people lived in caves. To make a drawing look real, you can add shading. Shading means making some parts darker and some lighter. You can also use hatching, which is drawing many little lines close together. Drawing is fun and you can do it with just a piece of paper and a pencil.
Lake\n\nA lake is a big area of water with land all around it. It is bigger and deeper than a pond. Lakes do not flow like rivers, but rivers can flow into and out of them. Most lakes have fresh water, not salt water. Some lakes are so big that people used to call them seas. Many lakes are made by people to get water for drinking or to make electricity. In very dry places, some lakes have salty water. You can swim, fish, or play near a lake.
Malay Archipelago\n\nThe Malay Archipelago is a big group of islands between Asia and Australia. It has more than 25,000 islands. Some of the islands are Indonesia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Brunei. The islands are in the Indian and Pacific Oceans. There are many mountains and volcanoes there. Some animals live on one side of the islands and different animals live on the other side. A man named Alfred Russel Wallace studied the animals there for eight years.
Revolution\n\nA revolution is a big change in a country. Sometimes people are not happy with how things are. They get together and try to make things different. Sometimes there is fighting, but sometimes there is not. The French Revolution was a time of big change in France long ago.
Yekaterinburg\n\nYekaterinburg is a big city in Russia. It sits in the Ural mountains, which is the part of Russia that is in Asia. Many people live there. The city was started a long time ago, in 1723. It was named after a queen called Catherine. Yekaterinburg has sister cities, which are other cities that are friends with it.
Flower\n\nA flower is the pretty, colorful part of a plant. Flowers have soft petals that can be many colors like red, yellow, pink, or white. Some flowers smell very nice. Flowers grow in gardens, parks, and even in cold places like the Arctic. People like to look at flowers and give them as gifts. Some flowers can be eaten, like broccoli and cauliflower. Bees visit flowers to make honey. Flowers help plants make seeds so new plants can grow.
Canal\n\nA canal is a water path that people dig in the ground. It is like a long, straight river that people make. Boats and barges can travel on canals to move heavy things from one place to another. Some canals connect big lakes or oceans. The Panama Canal is a famous canal that lets boats go from one ocean to another. Canals often have walls made of clay or concrete to keep the water in. Some canals have locks that help boats go up or down. Other canals bring water to farms to help plants grow.
Folk music\n\nFolk music is music that people make and share in a place or country. It is old music that children learn by hearing others sing or play it, not from a book. Every country has its own folk music. People sing folk songs when they work, play, or rest together. Some folk songs tell a story about love or make-believe. People also play folk music for dancing with simple instruments like drums, sticks, or a fiddle. Folk music is for everyone to enjoy, not just for special musicians.
Library of Congress\n\nThe Library of Congress is a big building in the United States that holds more books than any other library in the world. It has millions of books, pictures, maps, and papers. The library helps the people who make laws in the country. Anyone can go there to read and learn. The person in charge is called the Librarian of Congress.
Tibetan Plateau\n\nThe Tibetan Plateau is a very big, flat, and high place on Earth. It is the biggest flat high place in the world. It is so high that it is called the "roof of the world." The plateau is in China and near other countries like Nepal and India. It was made when big pieces of the ground pushed together a long time ago. This high land helps make the rain that falls in some parts of Asia.
Stick insect\n\nA stick insect is a bug that looks just like a stick or a leaf. It hides from animals that want to eat it by staying very still and looking like a part of a plant. Some stick insects are very long, even longer than a ruler. They eat leaves from trees and bushes. When they walk, they rock back and forth like a twig blowing in the wind. Some stick insects can spray a smelly liquid to keep enemies away. They live in warm places all over the world, especially in forests.
Cameroon\n\nCameroon is a country in Africa. It is in the middle part of Africa, near the Atlantic Ocean. The biggest city is Douala. The capital city is Yaound. Many people live there. People speak French and English in Cameroon. They also speak many other languages. Long ago, Germany ruled Cameroon, then France and Britain ruled parts of it. Now Cameroon is its own country.
Afterlife\n\nThe afterlife is what some people think happens after a person dies. Different people have different ideas about it. Some people believe you come back to life as a different person or animal. Others believe you go to a happy place or a sad place. Some people think there is no afterlife, and you just stop being alive. No one knows for sure what happens after death.
Silk\n\nSilk is a soft, strong thread that comes from a little animal called a silkworm. The silkworm makes a cozy house called a cocoon out of silk. People take the silk from the cocoon and weave it into cloth. This cloth can be made into pretty dresses, soft blankets, and even rugs. Long ago, only people in China knew how to make silk. They kept it a secret for a very long time. Silk was so special that people traveled far to buy it. Today, silk is still used to make beautiful things.
Marble (toy)\n\nA marble is a small, round toy. It can be made of glass, clay, steel, or plastic. Marbles come in many colors and sizes. Some are as small as a pea, and some are as big as a ball. You can play games with marbles by rolling them on the floor. People also like to collect marbles because they are pretty. You can build a track for marbles to roll down, called a marble run.
Poseidon\n\nPoseidon is a god from old stories. He is the god of the sea, storms, and horses. He lives in the water and can make big waves and earthquakes when he is angry. He carries a three-pronged spear called a trident. Sailors ask him for safe trips across the ocean. He is also called the Father of Horses because people say he made them. His special animals are the bull, the horse, and the dolphin.
Norse mythology\n\nNorse mythology is a set of old stories from people who lived in Scandinavia, a cold place in the north of Europe. These stories tell about gods, giants, and other magical beings. The gods lived in a place called Asgard, which you could reach by walking on a rainbow bridge. There were also giants who lived in a land of ice or a land of fire. The world where people live is called Midgard. Some of the names of the days of the week, like Tuesday and Wednesday, come from these old stories. Many books and movies today have elves, dwarves, and giants that come from Norse mythology.
Hong Kong\n\nHong Kong is a big city in China. It is a special place with its own rules. Many people live there, over seven million. Hong Kong has very tall buildings, more than any other city in the world. The weather is warm and rainy in summer, and cool in winter. Sometimes big storms called typhoons come. People in Hong Kong speak Cantonese, and they also learn English in school. The city used to be part of Britain, but now it is part of China. Hong Kong is a rich place where many people work with money.
Bullfrog\n\nA bullfrog is a big frog that lives near water. It is green or brown with dark spots and has webbed feet for swimming. Bullfrogs live in ponds, lakes, and swamps in North America. They eat bugs, fish, mice, and even other frogs. Male bullfrogs make a loud roar sound when they want a mate. That is why they are called bullfrogs. A female bullfrog can lay up to 20,000 eggs in the water. The eggs hatch into tadpoles that swim and eat plants. Tadpoles take a long time to grow into frogs. Bullfrogs can jump far and have strong back legs. They hide during the day and hunt at night. Some people keep bullfrogs as pets and feed them crickets and worms. Bullfrogs can live for many years in a safe home.
Diesel engine\n\nA diesel engine is a kind of engine that makes things move. It was invented by a man named Rudolf Diesel a long time ago. This engine does not use a spark to start. Instead, it squeezes air and fuel very hard until they get hot and explode. That explosion makes power. Diesel engines are very strong and use fuel well. They are used in big trucks, trains, and construction machines. Some diesel engines have a part called a turbocharger that pushes more air into the engine to make it even stronger. You can hear a whistling sound from the turbocharger. Some diesel engines can run on oil made from old cooking oil, which is called biodiesel.
Los Angeles\n\nLos Angeles is a big city in California, in the United States. It is the second biggest city in the country after New York. Many people live there, over 18 million in the area. The city is known for making movies and TV shows in a place called Hollywood. Many movie stars live there. Los Angeles has long beaches like Venice Beach. You can see the Hollywood Sign on a hill. The weather is warm and dry in summer, and a little cold and rainy in winter. Snow is very rare. The city has many people from different places, like Mexico, Japan, Korea, and many others. People eat a lot of Mexican food there. Los Angeles also has a big port where ships bring things from far away. The name Los Angeles means 'The Angels' in Spanish.
Pacific Ocean\n\nThe Pacific Ocean is the biggest ocean on Earth. It covers one third of the whole world. The ocean is between Asia and Australia on one side and the Americas on the other side. The Pacific Ocean is slowly getting smaller. The ground under the ocean folds and pushes down. This bumping makes many earthquakes and volcanoes. When an earthquake happens under the sea, it can make a big wave called a tsunami. Many volcanoes are islands in the Pacific Ocean or near its edge.
Granary\n\nA granary is a building on a farm that holds grain. Grain is the seeds from plants like wheat or corn that people use to make food. The granary keeps the grain dry so it does not get bad. It also keeps animals like mice away from the grain. Granaries are very old. People made them more than 11,000 years ago. A granary has few windows. It is built off the ground so water and mice cannot get in. There is a door near the bottom to take grain out and an opening up high to put grain in.
Gas\n\nA gas is one of the main kinds of stuff, like solids and liquids. Gases do not have a shape of their own. They spread out to fill any space they are in. You cannot see most gases, but you can feel them. The air you breathe is a gas. Gases can be squeezed into a smaller space. They are very light. Gas particles move around fast and bump into things. This bumping makes pressure. When a gas gets cold, it can turn into a liquid. When a liquid gets hot, it can turn into a gas. Some gases are made of one kind of atom, like oxygen. Some are made of different atoms together, like carbon dioxide. Air is a mix of many gases.
Porcupine\n\nA porcupine is an animal with sharp spines all over its body. These spines are called quills and they help keep the porcupine safe from other animals that might want to eat it. Porcupines are big and slow, and they come in brown, gray, and white colors. A baby porcupine is called a porcupette, and its quills are soft at first. The quills are like needles and can stick into an attacker. Porcupines live in many places like forests, deserts, and grasslands in Asia, Africa, and America. Some porcupines live in trees, and some live on the ground. They like to eat salty things, so they might chew on wood, tools, or even car tires.
Sculpture\n\nA sculpture is a kind of art that you can see and touch. It is not flat like a drawing. It has height, width, and depth, just like a real person or a toy. People make sculptures out of stone, wood, clay, or metal. Some sculptures are very big and stand outside in parks. Others are small and sit on a table. You can walk all around a sculpture and look at it from every side.
Condensation\n\nCondensation is when a gas turns into a liquid. It happens when the gas touches something cold. For example, when you see water drops on a cold glass, that is condensation. The water in the air turns into little drops on the glass. Condensation is part of how water moves around the Earth. It is the opposite of water turning into gas, which is called evaporation. When gas turns into liquid, it gives off heat.
Manila\n\nManila is a big city and the capital of the Philippines. It sits on a big island called Luzon, next to a bay named Manila Bay. Many people live there, and it has tall buildings and busy streets. Long ago, Spanish people built a walled city called Intramuros, with old stone churches and forts. There is also a big park named Rizal Park, named after a hero. Manila is where many people work, shop, and have fun.
Remote control\n\nA remote control is a small box you hold in your hand. It has buttons you push to tell a TV or other machine what to do. You can change the channel or make the sound louder. The remote control talks to the TV using a special light or radio waves. It needs batteries to work, like AA or coin batteries. There is no wire connecting the remote to the TV.
Nonverbal communication\n\nNonverbal communication is talking without using words. You can show how you feel with your face, like smiling or frowning. You can also use your hands and body, like waving or crossing your arms. Even the way you sit or stand tells others something. Clothes and hairstyles can also send messages. When you hug someone, that is a kind of touch that says something. Animals like dogs and cats use nonverbal communication too, like wagging their tail or purring.
Slavic languages\n\nSlavic languages are a group of languages that people speak in parts of Europe and Asia. Some Slavic languages are Russian, Polish, and Serbian. Some are written with one kind of letters, and some with another. People use these languages to talk, read, and write.
Red-eared slider\n\nA red-eared slider is a kind of turtle that lives in water and on land. It is a very popular pet turtle in the United States. It has a red mark near each ear, which is how it got its name. These turtles live in the southern part of the United States. They can also be found in other places where people have let them go. You should not feed them rhubarb leaves because those are bad for them. Also, do not give them too much food, or they can get sick.
Solar System\n\nThe Solar System is a big group of things in space that all go around the Sun. The Sun is a huge, hot ball of glowing gas that gives us light and warmth. Everything in the Solar System moves around the Sun because the Sun pulls them with its gravity. There are eight big planets in the Solar System. The planets closest to the Sun are Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. They are made of rock. The planets farther away are Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. They are made of gas and ice. Earth is the planet where we live. Some planets have moons that go around them. Saturn and Jupiter have rings made of ice and dust. There are also many smaller things in the Solar System, like asteroids, comets, and meteoroids. Most asteroids are found in a big ring between Mars and Jupiter called the asteroid belt. Comets are made of ice and dust, and when they get close to the Sun, they grow a long, glowing tail. Sometimes a small rock from space falls into Earth's sky and makes a bright streak called a shooting star. The Sun is the biggest and most important part of the Solar System. It is so big that it holds almost all the weight of the whole Solar System. The Sun makes energy by turning one kind of gas into another, and that energy comes to us as light and heat. The Solar System is very old. It started forming a very long time ago, even before the dinosaurs. People have looked at the sky for thousands of years and learned about the planets and stars. Today, we send robots and spaceships to explore the planets and moons.
Mechanical engineering\n\nMechanical engineering is a job where people make and fix machines. These machines can be very big, like a rocket ship, or very small, like a tiny computer part. Mechanical engineers use science to figure out how things move and how to build them strong. They help make cars, toys, and even roller coasters work.
Longitude\n\nLongitude is a way to tell where a place is on Earth. It uses an imaginary line called the Prime Meridian. Longitude says how far east or west a place is from that line. It is measured in degrees, like angles. Long ago, people on boats had a hard time knowing their longitude. Better clocks helped them figure it out. Lines of longitude are close together at the North and South Poles and far apart at the middle of the Earth.
Cubism\n\nCubism is a way of making art that shows a person or thing from many sides all at once. The pictures look like they are made from cubes and other shapes. Two artists named Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque started Cubism a long time ago. At first, they used only one color so people would look at the shapes. Later, Picasso began to use many colors and also glued pieces of paper onto his art. That is called collage. Cubism was a new and different way to draw and paint.
Antbird\n\nAntbirds are small birds that live in warm forests in Central and South America. They have round wings, strong legs, and heavy bills that are often hooked at the tip. Most antbirds are gray, white, brown, or reddish. The mommy and daddy birds look a little different from each other. Some antbirds have white patches on their backs that they show to warn other birds. Antbirds eat bugs and other small creatures. About eighteen kinds of antbirds follow army ants to catch the bugs that run away from the ants. Mommy and daddy antbirds stay together for life. They build a nest and lay two eggs. Both parents take turns keeping the eggs warm and feeding the babies. When the babies leave the nest, each parent takes care of one baby. Some antbirds are in danger because people cut down the forests where they live.
Rhine River\n\nThe Rhine River is a very long river in Europe. It starts in a lake in Switzerland and flows through Germany and the Netherlands to the sea. The river is so big that big boats can travel on it to carry things. Many cities are built along the Rhine, like Cologne and Bonn. The river has fish, but long ago factories put dirty water in it and many fish died. Now people are cleaning the river so fish can come back. Some parts of the Rhine have old castles on the hills next to it.
Guava\n\nGuava is a fruit that grows on small trees in warm places. It comes from Mexico, the Caribbean, Central America, and South America. Now people grow guavas in many hot countries. Guavas are a kind of berry. The most common guava is the apple guava. Red guavas are called maroon guava. Guavas have a lot of vitamin C, even more than oranges.
Amaranth\n\nAmaranth is a plant that grows in many places around the world. It has pretty flowers that can be purple, red, or gold. Some amaranth plants are weeds, but people also eat the leaves and seeds. The seeds can be cooked like rice or ground into flour.
Kelp\n\nKelp is a kind of seaweed that grows in the ocean. It is brown and looks like long, wavy leaves. Kelp grows very fast, sometimes as much as 30 centimeters in one day. Some kelp can be as long as 60 meters, which is longer than a big bus. Kelp has little air pockets that help it float near the top of the water. Many fish and other sea animals live in kelp forests and eat kelp for food. People also eat kelp as a vegetable. You can see kelp in some aquariums, like the big one in Monterey.
Information\n\nInformation is something you can learn or know about. A book or a newspaper has information about the world. When you use a computer, information is like facts that have been checked and are true. People can trust information that has been checked. Long ago, people started using computers to store information. Now we live in a time when there is a lot of information all around us.
Cerebellum\n\nThe cerebellum is a part of your brain. It helps you keep your balance so you do not fall down. It also helps your arms and legs move the way you want them to. When you walk, run, or catch a ball, your cerebellum is working. It takes messages from your eyes, ears, and muscles to help you move smoothly.
Jamaica\n\nJamaica is an island country in the Caribbean Sea. It is a warm place with beaches and mountains. The capital city is Kingston. Many people in Jamaica speak English. Jamaica is famous for reggae music and the singer Bob Marley. The runner Usain Bolt, who is very fast, comes from Jamaica. The island has a long history. Long ago, the Taino people lived there. Then Spain ruled the island, and later England took over. Jamaica became its own country in 1962. Today, the king of England is also the king of Jamaica, but the people vote for their own leaders.
Yangtze River\n\nThe Yangtze River is a very long river in China. It is the longest river in China and the third longest in the whole world. The river starts high up in the mountains in western China and flows all the way to the ocean. Many boats travel on the Yangtze River every day. A big dam called the Three Gorges Dam sits on the river. It is the biggest dam in the world. The river is home to special animals like the finless porpoise. But the river is getting very dirty. People throw trash and waste into the water, which is bad for the animals and the river.
Motorcycle\n\nA motorcycle is a vehicle with two wheels and a motor. It can go fast and carry one or two people. Some motorcycles have a sidecar for an extra passenger. Motorcycles are faster than bicycles and can be faster than cars. Riders must wear a helmet and special clothes to stay safe. In poor countries, many people use motorcycles because they cost less than cars. In rich countries, people ride motorcycles for fun and sport.
Toronto\n\nToronto is a big city in Canada. It is the capital of a part of Canada called Ontario. Many people live there, more than in any other Canadian city. Toronto is next to a big lake called Lake Ontario. You can see a very tall tower there called the CN Tower. People from all over the world live in Toronto, so there are many different foods and festivals. There are sports teams like the Toronto Maple Leafs for hockey and the Toronto Raptors for basketball. You can also visit museums, a zoo, and a big amusement park called Canada's Wonderland.
Passerine\n\nA passerine is a kind of bird that can perch on branches. Most passerines are small and can sing very well. They are also called songbirds. There are many, many kinds of passerines all over the world. They live in trees and bushes and make nests. Some passerines are tiny, like a sparrow, and some are a little bigger, like a robin. They have special feet that help them hold onto twigs. Baby passerines hatch from eggs and learn to sing from their parents.
Website\n\nA website is a place on the internet where you can see pages with words and pictures. You look at websites on a computer, a phone, or a TV. The pages are kept on big computers called web servers. Most websites have a home page that is like the front door. You can click on links to go to other pages. Some websites sell things, some let you talk to friends, and some help you learn new things. A blog is a kind of website where people write about what they think. To go to a website, you type its address into the web browser. The address often starts with 'www' and ends with something like '.com' or '.org'. Websites can look different, but they are all made with special code that tells the computer how to show them.
Senegal\n\nSenegal is a country in West Africa. The capital city is Dakar. Many people live there, about 18 million. The weather is warm, with a dry season and a rainy season. People in Senegal grow peanuts, sugarcane, cotton, and fruits like mangoes. They also catch fish. French is the main language people speak. The country has a big river called the Senegal River. Another country called The Gambia is inside Senegal. Senegal used to be ruled by France, but now it is its own country.
Economy\n\nAn economy is how people make, share, and use things. People make things like toys and food. People also do things for each other, like fixing a car or cutting hair. To get things, people use money. Money helps people trade without swapping one thing for another. The word 'economy' comes from a very old word that means 'someone who takes care of the house.'
Angel Falls\n\nAngel Falls is the tallest waterfall in the world. It is in a country called Venezuela. The water falls from a very high mountain called Auyantepui. The drop is so long that the water turns into mist before it hits the ground. The waterfall is named after a pilot named Jimmy Angel, who crashed his airplane near the top of the falls a long time ago.
Baba Yaga\n\nBaba Yaga is a make-believe old woman from stories in a part of the world called Slavic countries. She looks like a scary, ugly woman. Her house is very strange because it has giant chicken feet and can walk around. Sometimes she flies through the air in a big bowl that moves by magic. In stories, Baba Yaga can be mean and try to eat people, but sometimes she helps the good person in the story. She is like nature: she can help you or hurt you. You can find Baba Yaga in some video games and funny advice columns.
Shoebill\n\nA shoebill is a very tall bird with a big beak that looks like a shoe. It lives in wet, marshy places in East Africa, like in Sudan, Uganda, and Zambia. The shoebill is mostly gray with a whitish belly. Its beak is straw-colored with black marks and has a hook at the end to catch fish. It eats fish like lungfish and catfish, and sometimes even baby crocodiles. The shoebill is usually quiet, but it can make sounds like a cow's "moo" or a high-pitched "beeeeh." It likes to live alone and keeps its nest away from other shoebills. There are not many shoebills left in the world, so people are trying to protect them.
Jungle\n\nA jungle is a place in a rainforest where many plants grow close together. It is very hard to walk through because there are so many trees and bushes. Jungles have lots of rivers and streams. More kinds of animals and plants live in jungles than anywhere else on Earth. Some jungles are in the Amazon, which is a big forest in South America. In the jungle, there are snakes like the Green Anaconda. These snakes eat animals like rodents, monkeys, birds, frogs, fish, and even deer.
Echidna\n\nAn echidna is an animal that lives in Australia and New Guinea. It has a long, tube-like mouth and a sticky tongue. Its body is covered in sharp spines. When it is scared, it digs a hole with its long claws and hides so only its spines stick out. That way, other animals cannot hurt it. If there is a fire, it digs deep into the ground to stay safe. The echidna eats ants and termites. It picks them up with its sticky tongue. A baby echidna hatches from an egg.
Hand\n\nA hand is the part of your body at the end of your arm. Most people have two hands. Each hand has four fingers and a thumb. The inside of your hand is called the palm. Your hand has many bones inside, even in your wrist. When you bend all your fingers tight, you make a fist. Your hand can hold things like toys and spoons. Some animals also have hands, but human hands can do special things.
Emerald\n\nAn emerald is a green stone that people find in the ground. It is a kind of crystal that looks bright green. Some people wear emeralds as jewelry, like rings or necklaces. The emerald is a very special and expensive stone. If your birthday is in May, the emerald is your birthstone.
Pony\n\nA pony is a small horse. Ponies have short legs and a chubby body. They are not the same as miniature horses, which look like tiny horses with longer legs. Ponies live on farms and eat grass. A baby pony is called a foal. Some well-known pony breeds are Shetland ponies.
Willow\n\nA willow is a tree or a bush that grows near wet ground. It has long, bendy branches that can be soft and easy to move. The wood is tough but not hard. Willow roots are very strong and hard to kill. In early spring, before the leaves come out, the willow grows fuzzy little flowers called catkins. Some willows are very small, and some grow very tall. You can find willows in cool, wet places in the north part of the world.
Podcasting\n\nPodcasting is a way to share stories and news using sound. People make audio shows that you can listen to on a computer or a small music player. You can find podcasts about almost anything, like funny stories, learning new things, or your favorite TV shows. Many people like to listen to podcasts while they play or travel. Anyone can make a podcast and share what they know with others.
Map\n\nA map is a picture of a place. It shows where things are, like streets, parks, and houses. Long ago, maps were drawn on paper. Today, you can see maps on a phone or a computer. A map helps you find your way. A globe is a round map that looks like a little Earth.
Helsinki\n\nHelsinki is a big city in Finland. It is the capital city, which means the most important city in the country. Helsinki is in the south of Finland, near the sea. The city has many islands and bays. Some islands have a zoo and a big fortress. People can take boats to other cities like Tallinn and Stockholm. There is also an airport in a nearby town called Vantaa. Many people live in Helsinki and the towns around it.
Fandom\n\nA fandom is a group of people who really like the same thing. They might like a sports team, a book, a movie, or a singer. People in a fandom talk about what they like and share it with each other. Being in a fandom is fun because you can make friends who like the same things you do.
Djibouti\n\nDjibouti is a country in Africa, on the east coast. The capital city is also called Djibouti. It is a hot and dry place with deserts and mountains. Many people live there, mostly Somali and Afar. They speak Somali, Afar, Arabic, and French. Most people in Djibouti are Muslim. The country is near the Red Sea, so ships pass by. Soccer is the most popular sport there.
Monster\n\nA monster is a made-up creature in stories. Monsters are often big, ugly, and scary. They can look like many different things, such as a dragon, a ghost, or a giant. Some monsters try to scare people or eat them. But not all monsters are bad. Some monsters are nice and help people. You can find monsters in books, movies, and pretend games.
Mayan civilization\n\nThe Maya civilization was a group of people who lived a long time ago in Central America. They built big stone cities and tall pyramids. The Maya grew food like corn, beans, and peppers. They had a written language and made calendars by watching the stars. They traded things like salt, shells, and jade with other people. After many years, the Maya cities in the south were left empty. No one knows exactly why. But Maya people still live in the same area today. They speak old Maya languages and keep many old traditions.
Vampire\n\nA vampire is a make-believe creature in stories. Vampires used to be people, but now they are not alive like us. In many stories, vampires drink blood to stay strong. They bite people on the neck with two long, sharp teeth. Some vampires can turn into bats or wolves. People tell stories about vampires in books and movies. The most famous vampire is Dracula. In stories, garlic can keep vampires away. But vampires are not real. There is a real animal called a vampire bat that drinks blood from other animals.
Wood\n\nWood comes from trees. It is the hard part inside a tree that keeps it standing up tall. Wood has rings inside that show how old the tree is. People use wood to make many things. They build houses, chairs, tables, and beds out of wood. Wood can also be burned for heat and to cook food. Paper is made from tiny bits of wood. Some wood is light in color, and some is dark. Hard wood like oak and maple is strong. Soft wood like pine is easier to cut. A person who cuts down trees for wood is called a lumberjack. Wood can be painted or covered with clear shiny paint to keep it nice.
Ant\n\nAn ant is a very small insect. Ants live together in big groups called colonies. A colony has a queen ant that lays eggs. Worker ants find food and dig tunnels. Soldier ants fight to protect the colony. Ants are very strong and can carry things much heavier than themselves. They live almost everywhere on Earth except in very cold places like Antarctica. Ants cannot live alone for long because they need to work together.
Boston\n\nBoston is a big city in the United States. It is in a state called Massachusetts. Boston is one of the oldest cities in the country. A long time ago, people from England came to live there. They started the first public school and the first university in America. Boston is famous for the American Revolution, when people fought to be free from England. You can see old places like Faneuil Hall and the Freedom Trail. Today, Boston has many schools and hospitals. People there love sports. The Red Sox play baseball at Fenway Park. The Celtics play basketball, and the Bruins play hockey. Many people from other countries live in Boston, especially from Ireland and Italy. The city has a big airport called Logan Airport. Boston is also near the ocean.
Floor\n\nA floor is the flat part inside a building that you walk on. Floors can be made of wood, stone, or other hard things. Sometimes people put soft carpets on the floor. The word "floor" also means the different levels of a building. In some countries, the bottom level is called the first floor, and in others it is called the ground floor. Gymnasts also do tricks on a special floor.
Trust (social science)\n\nTrust is a feeling you have when you know someone will be good and do what they say. It is like being sure about something, even if you cannot see it. When you trust your mom, you know she will take care of you. When you trust your friend, you know they will share their toys. But trusting someone without thinking can be tricky. Sometimes people break your trust, and that feels sad. The opposite of trust is mistrust, which means you do not feel sure about someone.
Horned lizard\n\nA horned lizard is a small animal that lives in hot, dry places in North America. It has sharp scales and horns on its head to keep it safe. When it is scared, it can shoot blood from its eyes to scare away animals that want to eat it. It mostly eats ants and other bugs. The mother horned lizard lays her eggs in a hole in the ground.
Guinea pig\n\nA guinea pig is a small animal with fur. It is not a pig and it does not come from Guinea. People keep guinea pigs as pets in many parts of the world. They like to live with at least one other guinea pig because they are friendly animals. Guinea pigs need a big cage with soft bedding. They eat hay, fresh vegetables, and special food pellets. They also like to be held gently in your hands. Some people in South America raise guinea pigs for food. The word "guinea pig" can also mean a person who tries something new first.
Tarantula\n\nA tarantula is a very big spider with lots of hair on its body. There are many kinds of tarantulas all over the world. They live in warm places. Some tarantulas hunt for food up in trees, and some hunt on the ground. All tarantulas can make silk, which is like a thin thread. They use the silk to make a safe home in a tree or in a hole in the ground. When a tarantula catches a bug to eat, it wraps the bug up in silk first. Big snakes and a special kind of wasp like to eat tarantulas. Tarantulas hide to stay safe, and they have sharp fangs to bite.
Internet meme\n\nAn internet meme is a funny picture, video, or saying that people share on the computer. It starts with one person and then many people copy it and change it a little bit. You might see a meme of a cat doing something silly or a funny face. People send memes to their friends to make them laugh.
Jaipur\n\nJaipur is a big city in India. It is the capital of a place called Rajasthan. Many people live there. The city was built a long time ago by a king. He wanted a new city because the old one did not have enough water. Jaipur has schools, roads, and places where people make things. It is also a place where people come to see old buildings and learn about history.
Couch\n\nA couch is a big, soft piece of furniture that more than one person can sit on. It has a place to rest your arm on each side. You usually find a couch in the living room, often in front of the TV. Some couches are small for two people, and some are big for more. A person who sits on the couch a lot and does not move much is called a "couch potato." Couches are soft and comfortable to sit on.
Brunei\n\nBrunei is a small country in Southeast Asia. It is on the island of Borneo, next to Malaysia. The capital is Bandar Seri Begawan. The leader is called the Sultan, and he is very rich because Brunei sells oil. Most people in Brunei follow the religion of Islam. Some people also follow Buddhism or Animism. The people speak Malay and English. Brunei is one of the smallest Muslim countries in the world.
Macaque\n\nA macaque is a kind of monkey that lives in Africa and Asia. Some macaques even live in a place called Gibraltar. Macaques have a group where some monkeys are the boss. If a lower monkey has berries, a higher monkey can take them away. In 2014, a macaque took a man's camera and took a picture of itself. The picture was put on the internet for everyone to see.
Parachute\n\nA parachute is a big piece of fabric that looks like an upside-down umbrella. It helps people float slowly down from the sky so they land safely. People use parachutes when they jump out of airplanes. This is called skydiving. Soldiers who jump with parachutes are called paratroopers. A parachute has a backpack that holds the fabric, and straps that go around the jumper's body. When the jumper pulls a small parachute called a pilot chute, it pulls the big parachute out and fills it with air. Most parachutes have two parachutes: a main one and a spare one in case something goes wrong. The spare parachute has saved many lives. Parachutes must be folded carefully so they open the right way.
Artificial island\n\nAn artificial island is a piece of land that people build in the water. It is not made by nature. People make these islands by piling up sand, rocks, or dirt until the land sticks out of the water. Some artificial islands are very big, and some are small. People build them for many reasons, like making a place for houses or parks. A country that builds an artificial island near its coast gets to keep it as part of that country.
Hunger\n\nHunger is the feeling when your body wants food. After you play or run around, you might feel hungry. When you eat, the hungry feeling goes away. People can live for many days without food, but they need water to stay alive. Some people do not have enough food and feel hungry a lot. That is called hunger too.
Trial\n\nA trial is when two people or two groups argue in a special room called a court. One side says the other side did something wrong. A judge sits at the front and makes sure everyone follows the rules. Sometimes, a group of people called a jury listens and decides who is right. If someone is found to have done something wrong, the judge decides what happens next, like paying money or going to a special place called prison. Trials can be short or take a very long time.
White blood cell\n\nWhite blood cells are tiny helpers inside your body that fight germs and keep you from getting sick. When you have a cold or a cut, your body makes more white blood cells to help you get better. There are different kinds of white blood cells. Some eat the germs, some make special stickers called antibodies that stick to germs, and some kill sick cells. When you are healthy, the number of white blood cells goes back down. A doctor can take a little bit of your blood to count how many white blood cells you have.
Palace\n\nA palace is a very big and fancy building. A king or queen might live there. Some palaces are very old and now people can visit them to see how kings and queens used to live. A palace can also be a big building where people go for shows or parties. The word "palace" comes from a hill in Rome where Roman leaders lived long ago. Palaces are different from castles because castles were built to be safe from enemies. Some palaces have many rooms and are made of beautiful wood or stone. They often have big gardens around them.
Istanbul\n\nIstanbul is a very big city in a country called Turkey. It is special because it sits in two parts of the world at the same time: one part is in Europe and the other part is in Asia. A big water called the Bosporus runs through the middle of the city and separates the two sides. Many people live in Istanbul, more than in most other cities in Europe. The city has a very old history. Long ago it was called Constantinople, and it was the capital of a big empire called the Ottoman Empire. Today, many people from other places come to visit Istanbul every year. Some parts of the city are so old and important that they are protected as a World Heritage Site.
Nutmeg\n\nNutmeg is a spice that comes from a tree. The tree is green all year and grows in warm, wet places like Southeast Asia and Australia. People dry the seed of the nutmeg tree and grind it into a powder. The powder smells sweet and warm. Some people put nutmeg in cakes, cookies, and warm drinks. But too much nutmeg can make you sick, and some people are allergic to it.
Titan (moon)\n\nTitan is a big moon that goes around Saturn. It is the only moon in our whole solar system that has air around it. The air is very thick, but people cannot breathe it because it is too cold and has poison in it. The air is made of nitrogen and methane. Titan has lakes and liquid on its surface, just like Earth, but the liquid is methane, not water. Titan is bigger than the planet Mercury, but it is lighter. A spacecraft called Cassini-Huygens visited Titan and took pictures of its lakes. Titan takes about 16 days to go all the way around Saturn.
Natural resource\n\nA natural resource is something people take from nature to use. Air, water, wood, oil, and sunlight are natural resources. Some natural resources, like sunlight and wind, never run out. Other natural resources, like oil and coal, will run out one day. People need natural resources to live. When people do not have clean water, they can get sick. People try to save natural resources so there is enough for everyone.
Dairy product\n\nDairy products are foods made from animal milk. Most dairy comes from cows, but some comes from goats and other animals. Milk, cheese, butter, yogurt, and ice cream are all dairy products. They are good for your bones and help you grow strong.
Management\n\nManagement is about telling a group of people what to do so they can finish a job together. The people who do this are called managers. They help decide how to use things like money, tools, and time to get work done. Managers also help people work as a team.
Yahweh\n\nYahweh is a name for God that people used a long, long time ago in a place called Israel. Long ago, people thought there were many gods, and Yahweh was one of them. Later, people started to believe that Yahweh was the only God. They told stories about Yahweh making the land grow food and helping them in fights. Today, many people still use the name Yahweh when they talk about God.
Sink\n\nA sink is a place where you wash your hands, face, and dishes. You can find sinks in kitchens and bathrooms. A sink has a bowl that holds water, one or two taps that water comes out of, and a drain that lets the water go away. Some sinks have a spray to clean things faster, and some have a soap holder.
Giraffe\n\nA giraffe is a very tall animal that lives in Africa. It has a very long neck and long legs, and it is the tallest land animal on Earth. Giraffes have a long black tongue that they use to pull leaves off tall trees. Their fur is light yellow or tan with brown patches, and no two giraffes have the same pattern. Both boy and girl giraffes have small horn-like bumps on their heads called ossicones. Giraffes live on the grassy savannah or in light woodland, not in thick forests. They eat mostly leaves from tall trees and can go without water for weeks. A baby giraffe is called a calf, and it is already 2 meters tall when it is born. Giraffes can live up to 25 years in the wild.
Month\n\nA month is a long time, like a big piece of a year. There are 12 months in one year. Each month is about as long as it takes the moon to go around the Earth. Some months have 30 days, some have 31, and February has 28 or 29 days. We use months to know when things happen, like birthdays and holidays.
Medicine\n\nMedicine is how doctors help people who are sick or hurt. Doctors learn many things to keep people healthy. They give medicine to stop sickness and fix broken bones. Some doctors help children, and some help with hearts or skin. Nurses also help doctors take care of people. When you go to the doctor, they check your body and make sure you are okay.
Spinal cord\n\nThe spinal cord is a long bundle of nerves inside your back. It is like a soft tube that carries messages between your brain and the rest of your body. The bones of your spine keep it safe. When you touch something hot, the spinal cord tells your brain, and your brain tells your hand to pull away. It also helps you move your arms and legs.
Handball\n\nHandball is a game where two teams try to throw a ball into the other team's goal. Each team has seven players, including one goalie. Players use their hands to pass and bounce the ball. The game lasts one hour, with two parts of 30 minutes each. The playing area is a big rectangle, a little bigger than a basketball court. Only the goalie can stand in a special area near the goal. If a player breaks the rules, they have to sit out for a while.
Bow (weapon)\n\nA bow is a tool that shoots arrows. It is made of a long curved stick with a string tied to both ends. Long ago, people used bows to hunt animals and in wars. Today, people use bows for sport. A person who uses a bow is called an archer. To shoot, you put an arrow on the string, pull the string back, and let go. The string throws the arrow forward. Some bows are made of wood, and some are made of plastic.
Housefly\n\nA housefly is a small bug that lives near people. You often see it inside houses. It has two wings and six legs. Houseflies like to land on food and garbage. They can make people sick, so it is not good to let them touch your food. A mother fly lays many tiny eggs. The eggs turn into little white worms called maggots. Maggots eat old food and dead things. Then they turn into hard brown cases. After a few days, a new fly comes out. Adult flies live for a few weeks.
Architecture\n\nArchitecture is the job of designing buildings and other structures like houses, churches, bridges, and tunnels. People who do this job are called architects. They use art and science to make buildings that are strong and look nice. Long ago, people built simple huts to stay safe from the weather. Later, the Ancient Egyptians made big temples and pyramids. The Greeks and Romans made buildings that were very balanced and pretty. In the Middle Ages, people built tall churches with pointy windows and arches. Today, architects use steel and glass to build very tall buildings called skyscrapers. Some famous architects are Frank Lloyd Wright and Norman Foster.
Brown dwarf\n\nA brown dwarf is an object in space that is made of the same stuff as stars, but it is not big enough to shine like a star. Stars shine because they smash tiny bits inside them together to make heat and light. Brown dwarfs are too small to do that, so they only give off a very dim glow. They are bigger than the biggest planets, but smaller than the smallest stars. Even though they are called brown, they would look pinkish or purple to our eyes. The first brown dwarf was found in 1994. Since then, scientists have found many more. Some brown dwarfs are very close to Earth, but they are hard to see because they are so dim.
Electricity generation\n\nElectricity generation is how people make electricity. Most electricity comes from big machines called generators. These machines are turned by engines that use different kinds of power. Some power comes from burning coal, gas, or oil. Some comes from the sun, wind, or water. The electricity then travels along wires to homes and schools. People use it to turn on lights, run computers, and power toys. Making electricity can sometimes hurt the environment, so people are trying to use cleaner ways like solar panels and wind turbines.
Power (physics)\n\nPower is how fast work is done. It tells how quickly energy moves from one thing to another. A bright light bulb uses more power than a dim one. A kettle uses a lot of power to boil water. A car uses even more power to go fast. Power is measured in watts. One watt is one unit of energy used every second. If you lift a heavy toy slowly, you use less power. If you lift it fast, you use more power.
Polar bear\n\nA polar bear is a big white bear that lives in the cold Arctic. It has black skin under its white fur. The fur keeps it warm. Polar bears are strong and can run fast for a short time. They can swim very well. They eat seals, fish, and other animals. They wait at holes in the ice to catch seals. Polar bears live alone. Baby polar bears are called cubs. They are born very small and drink their mother's milk. The mother protects them and teaches them to hunt. After two years, the cubs leave to live on their own. Polar bears can live up to 30 years in the wild.
Steam engine\n\nA steam engine is a machine that uses steam from hot water to move. The steam pushes parts inside the engine to make them go. Long ago, people used steam engines to run trains, boats, and factory machines. The steam is made in a big pot called a boiler. Fire heats the boiler to turn water into steam. The steam pushes a part called a piston back and forth. That motion can turn wheels or pump water. Today, some power plants still use steam to make electricity.
Bovid\n\nA bovid is an animal with hooves that are split into two toes. Cows, goats, sheep, and antelopes are all bovids. They live in many places around the world, but not in South America, Australia, or Antarctica. Bovid animals eat grass and plants. They have a special stomach that helps them digest their food very well. Some bovids, like cows and sheep, live on farms and give us milk and wool.
Elijah\n\nElijah is a person from a very old book called the Bible. He was a special helper of God. He told people what God wanted them to know. One time, Elijah told a king that it would not rain for a long time. Then God sent birds to bring Elijah food. Elijah also helped a woman who had almost no food. He told her to make him a small cake first, and then her flour and oil did not run out until the rain came. When her son got very sick and stopped breathing, Elijah prayed to God, and the boy came back to life. Another time, Elijah had a contest with many false prophets. They called to their god, but nothing happened. Then Elijah prayed to God, and fire came down from the sky and burned up his offering. After that, the people knew that God is real. At the end of his life, Elijah went up to heaven in a strong wind.
Piano\n\nA piano is a big musical instrument with black and white keys. When you press a key, a little hammer inside hits a string and makes a sound. The piano can play loud or soft sounds. It has pedals at the bottom that you push with your feet to change the sound. People play the piano by sitting on a bench and pressing the keys with their fingers. Many songs are written for the piano, and lots of people like to listen to it.
Koi\n\nA koi is a fish that lives in outdoor ponds. Koi can be many colors like white, black, red, yellow, blue, and cream. They have patterns and scales on their bodies. People keep koi in water gardens because they are pretty to look at. In some places, like Queensland in Australia, it is not allowed to have koi because they can cause problems for other animals.
Fact\n\nA fact is something that is true and real. It is something that has really happened or is really there. You can check a fact to see if it is true. For example, if you ask "what color is this?" and someone says "red," that is a fact if the thing is really red. A fact is different from an opinion. An opinion is what someone thinks or feels. But you can have facts about opinions, like "Alice said she likes the book." That is a fact about what Alice said. Scientists find facts by looking very carefully and doing tests. A fact can be something simple, like "the sky is blue," or something big, like "the Earth goes around the Sun."
Migraine\n\nA migraine is a kind of headache that hurts a lot on one side of the head. The pain feels like a pounding or throbbing. It can be so bad that a person cannot do anything. Some people also feel sick to their stomach or dizzy. Bright lights and loud noises can make it worse. Some people see funny patterns or have blurry eyes before the headache starts. A migraine can last from four hours to three days. Sleeping often helps it go away. More girls than boys get migraines when they grow up. If someone in your family has migraines, you might get them too.
Blue whale\n\nA blue whale is the biggest animal that has ever lived on Earth, even bigger than the biggest dinosaurs. It lives in the ocean and is a mammal, which means it breathes air like you do. A blue whale can be very, very long, as long as two school buses. Its body is long and skinny, and it is blue-gray on top and lighter underneath. Blue whales eat tiny little animals called krill, which look like very small shrimp. They eat a lot of krill every day. Long ago, many people hunted blue whales, but now they are protected, so there are not as many as before. You can see them in some oceans, like near Canada.
Deity\n\nA deity is a very powerful spirit that people believe in. Deities are also called gods. A female god is often called a goddess. Different religions have different ideas about deities. Some religions believe in many gods. The two biggest religions in the world believe in only one God. Most people think deities cannot die and have powers much bigger than people have.
South China Sea\n\nThe South China Sea is a big area of ocean near China. Many countries use this sea for boats and fishing. The water is warm and blue. There are many small islands in the sea. Some islands have people living on them, but most are too small for people. Different countries say the islands and water belong to them.
Herb\n\nAn herb is a plant that people use for food, to make medicine, or for its nice smell. Herbs have soft stems when they are young. Some herbs grow back every year, and some live for only one year. People put herbs in food to make it taste good. Some herbs smell nice and are used in perfumes. Others help people feel better when they are sick. You can grow herbs in a garden or in a pot near a sunny window.
Color blindness\n\nColor blindness is when a person cannot tell the difference between some colors. Most of the time, it is something you are born with. Boys get it more often than girls. Some people cannot see red and green. A few people can only see black, white, and gray. There is no medicine to fix it. But color blind people can be good at seeing through camouflage. Doctors use special pictures with dots to test for color blindness.
Lime\n\nA lime is a small, round, green fruit. It is a citrus fruit, just like a lemon. Limes grow on trees. They taste sour and a little bitter. People use lime juice in drinks and cooking. Limes have vitamin C, which helps keep you healthy. Long ago, sailors ate limes so they would not get sick on their long trips.
Chain\n\nA chain is like a rope, but it is made of many small rings called links. The links are joined together one after another. You can pull a chain, and it can hold things. Some chains are made of metal, and some are made of plastic. You might see a chain on a swing or on a necklace.
France\n\nFrance is a country in Europe. It is shaped like a hexagon, which is a shape with six sides. France is next to Belgium, Germany, Italy, Spain, and other countries. The capital city is Paris. Many people visit France every year because it has famous places like the Eiffel Tower. The language people speak in France is French. France has mountains called the Alps and the Pyrenees. There are also big rivers like the Seine and the Loire. The weather is different in different parts of France. In the north and west, it is often cool and rainy. In the south, summers are hot and dry, and winters are cool and wet. France is known for its food like bread, cheese, and pastries. The flag of France has three stripes: blue, white, and red.
Wage\n\nA wage is money that someone gets for doing work. When you work for a boss, the boss pays you a wage. Some people get paid for each hour they work. Others get paid for each thing they make. A wage is different from a salary, which is the same amount every week or month. Many countries have a rule that bosses must pay at least a certain amount of money. This is called the minimum wage. It helps make sure workers get enough money for their work.
Electronic dance music\n\nElectronic dance music is music made with computers and machines that you can dance to. People play this music at parties and clubs. DJs use special tools like keyboards and drum machines to make the music. It has a fast beat that makes you want to move your body. There are many kinds of electronic dance music, like house and techno. Some songs from a long time ago helped make this music popular.
Gel\n\nA gel is a wobbly, squishy stuff that is not quite solid and not quite liquid. It feels soft and jiggly when you touch it. Jelly is a kind of gel that you can eat. Some gels are used to make things like contact lenses and slime.
Aconcagua\n\nAconcagua is a very tall mountain in South America. It is the highest mountain in the Americas. It is in a country called Argentina, in a place called the Andes. The top of Aconcagua is very high up, higher than any other mountain in North or South America. Some people try to climb it, but it can be dangerous because of the cold wind and the thin air. Many people have tried to reach the top, and some have gotten hurt or died. That is why climbers must be very careful and prepared.
Rocky Mountains\n\nThe Rocky Mountains are a very long line of tall mountains in the western part of the United States and Canada. They are also called the Rockies. These mountains are very old, but they were made when the ground pushed up a long time ago. The highest part is called Mount Elbert. Some of the Rocky Mountains are in a special park where people can visit and see the big peaks and deep valleys. The mountains have hard rocks inside them that were made even before the mountains grew up.
Fuse\n\nA fuse is a little part that helps keep things safe. When too much electricity tries to go through a wire, the fuse gets hot and breaks. This stops the electricity so nothing gets hurt. After the fuse breaks, you have to put a new one in. Some fuses break fast, and some take a tiny bit longer.
Lumber\n\nLumber is wood that has been cut into flat pieces for building things like houses and furniture. People use big saws to cut trees into boards of different sizes. Some boards are called two-by-fours, which means they are about two inches thick and four inches wide. Lumber can be long or short, and it comes in many lengths like eight feet or twelve feet. Builders use lumber to make walls, floors, and roofs.
Wildfire\n\nA wildfire is a big fire that burns in forests, grasslands, or other places with many plants. Wildfires happen on every continent except Antarctica. Some start by themselves from lightning or heat, but many are started by people by accident or on purpose. Wildfires can burn houses and hurt people, but they also help some plants. Some trees, like Sequoia, need fire to open their cones and let new seeds grow. Other plants have thick bark or oily leaves that help them survive fire. After a fire, new plants can grow from seeds that waited in the ground.
Lake Michigan\n\nLake Michigan is a very big lake in North America. It is one of the five Great Lakes. The lake is so big that it is the fifth largest lake in the whole world. Four states in the United States touch Lake Michigan: Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, and Michigan. The biggest city on the lake is Chicago. A long time ago, people called the lake "mishigami," which means "great water." Many people live near the lake, mostly in Chicago and Milwaukee.
Marketing\n\nMarketing is how people tell others about things they can buy. It helps connect the people who make things with the people who want them. People who do marketing find out what others like and want. Then they show those things in ads or stores so people know about them.
Pottery\n\nPottery is a thing made from wet clay that gets baked in a very hot oven called a kiln. The baking makes the clay hard and strong. Sometimes the potter puts a shiny coat called glaze on it to make it smooth and waterproof. People have made pottery for a very long time, even before farms and cities. The oldest pottery we know about is a little statue from a long time ago. People use pottery to make bowls, cups, and plates for eating and drinking. Some pottery is just for looking at, like art. A place where pottery is made is also called a pottery.
Cedar\n\nA cedar is a tall tree that grows in warm places near the sea. It has needles instead of flat leaves, and those needles stay green all year long. The tree makes cones that hold seeds. The wood of a cedar tree smells nice and spicy. Some cedar trees are very, very tall. The bark on the trunk is thick and has cracks in it. The branches are wide and flat. Baby cones are green at first, and then they turn brown. When the cones get old, they break open and let the seeds fly away on little wings. Squirrels like to eat the seeds, but the seeds have a bad taste that keeps some squirrels away.
Strait of Magellan\n\nThe Strait of Magellan is a water path that connects two big oceans. It is near the bottom of South America, between the mainland and a group of islands. The water there is often foggy and stormy. A long time ago, a man named Ferdinand Magellan found this path. Now the country of Chile owns the land around it.
Acid\n\nAn acid is a kind of chemical. Some acids taste sour, like lemon juice. Acids can change the color of a special paper called litmus to red. Strong acids can hurt your skin, so you must be careful. Acids are in your stomach to help break down food. Some ants make acid to protect themselves. Acids are also inside your body in DNA, which tells your body how to grow.
People's Republic of China\n\nThe People's Republic of China is a big country in East Asia. It has more people than any other country in the world. The capital city is Beijing. Shanghai is a very big city with lots of people. China has many other cities and places. Hong Kong and Macau are special parts of China. China is very old and has a long history. People in China invented writing a long time ago. They also made many things like paper and silk. The flag of China is red with five yellow stars. Many children in China go to school and learn to read and write.
Snowboarding\n\nSnowboarding is a sport where you stand on a flat board and ride down a snowy mountain. Your feet are both on one board, like surfing on snow. Some snowboarders like to jump over bumps and do tricks. You need warm clothes, goggles to protect your eyes, and a helmet to keep your head safe. The board has bindings that hold your boots tight. You can stand with your right foot in back or your left foot in back. Most people put their right foot in back.
Arithmetic\n\nArithmetic is about numbers. You learn it in school. The four main things you do with numbers are adding, taking away, multiplying, and sharing. Adding means putting numbers together. Taking away means finding how many are left. Multiplying means adding the same number many times. Sharing means splitting a number into equal parts. People use arithmetic for many jobs like building houses, fixing cars, and helping sick people. You can do arithmetic in your head or use a calculator.
Courtship\n\nCourtship is a time when two people get to know each other. They spend time together to see if they want to get married later. Sometimes it is just between the two people, and sometimes their families help. In some places, people court for a long time before they decide to get married. Long ago, many people courted only to find a husband or wife. Today, some people still do this, but others do not.
Aztecs\n\nThe Aztecs were a group of Native American people who lived in Mexico a long time ago. They built a big city called Tenochtitlan on an island in a lake. That city is now Mexico City. The Aztecs had a king and many gods. They believed in gods like the sun god and the rain god. They grew food like corn, beans, and squash. They also made chocolate, but it was not sweet like today. The Aztecs played a game with a rubber ball and hoops on walls. They used a calendar with 365 days. The Aztecs were very powerful until Spanish people came and took over their land in 1521. Today, many Mexican people have Aztec ancestors, and the Mexican flag has an Aztec symbol on it.
Sibling\n\nA sibling is your sister or brother. If you have a brother, he is your sibling. If you have a sister, she is your sibling too. Some siblings live in the same house and play together. Older siblings can help take care of younger ones. Sometimes siblings share toys or argue, but they still love each other.
Yellowstone National Park\n\nYellowstone National Park is a big park in the United States. It was the first national park in the world. The park has hot water that shoots up from the ground, called geysers. The most famous geyser is Old Faithful. Many big animals live there, like bison, bears, wolves, and elk. People visit the park to see the animals and the geysers. The park is in Wyoming, Montana, and Idaho. It has a big volcano that is sleeping now. Sometimes the ground shakes a little. The park is a special place where nature is protected.
Lake Erie\n\nLake Erie is a big lake in North America. It is one of the five Great Lakes. Part of Lake Erie is in the United States and part is in Canada. Water comes into Lake Erie from the Detroit River and other rivers. Water leaves Lake Erie and goes to Niagara Falls, a very big waterfall. Big cities like Cleveland and Buffalo are near Lake Erie.
Toy\n\nA toy is something you play with. Kids play with toys, and sometimes grown-ups and pets do too. Long ago, toys were made from rocks, sticks, or clay. Now, most toys are made of plastic. Toys can be balls, cars, dolls, or even video games. Children have played with toys for a very long time.
Eurasian eagle-owl\n\nThe Eurasian eagle-owl is a very big bird that flies at night. It is one of the largest owls in the world. The female is bigger than the male. It has special feathers on its head that look like ears. This owl lives in rocky places and mountains in Europe and Asia. It hunts for food near woods and wet areas.
Percentage\n\nA percentage is a way to talk about parts of one hundred. The sign for it is %. If you have 3 apples and 1 orange, 3 out of 4 pieces of fruit are apples. That is 75 out of 100, or 75%. Percentages help compare things, like test scores, even if the tests have different numbers of questions.
Easter Island\n\nEaster Island is a small island far away in the ocean. It is famous for its huge stone statues called Moai. The statues are very big and look like people. They were made a long time ago by the people who lived there. The island also has a big hole in the ground called a crater, with a lake inside. The capital city is Hanga Roa. Many people visit Easter Island to see the Moai statues.
Sabbath\n\nA sabbath is a special day each week when people rest and pray. The word comes from a very old language and means "rest." Long ago, in a holy book, it tells how God rested after making the whole world. Many people remember this day as a time to stop working and be quiet. Some people rest on Saturday, and some rest on Sunday. It is a day to be with family and think about good things.
Hymn\n\nA hymn is a special song that people sing in church. Many people sing hymns together, or sometimes a small group called a choir sings them. A piano or organ often plays the music while people sing. Hymns talk about God and how people love God. One famous hymn is called "Amazing Grace." It tells how God helps people even when they make mistakes.
Field research\n\nField research is when people study things in the place where they live, not in a room. A scientist might watch animals in the woods to see what they do. Another person might talk to people in their homes to learn about them. The people who do field research watch and listen carefully. They do not change what is happening. They just look and learn.
Sewage treatment\n\nSewage treatment is how we clean dirty water from toilets, sinks, and factories so it doesn't hurt people or rivers. The dirty water goes through pipes to a special plant. First, big things like rags are taken out with screens. Then sand and grit fall to the bottom. Next, fats float to the top and solids sink, and that gunk is called sludge. The water then gets air with lots of oxygen, which kills tiny germs. After that, the water is clean enough to go back to rivers. Some plants use ponds or rocks with helpful germs to clean the water. The sludge can be used to make gas or fertilizer for farms.
Clause\n\nA clause is a part of a sentence. It has a who or what (the subject) and what happens (the predicate). For example, 'I love you' is one clause. 'I love you and I will always love you' has two clauses joined by the word 'and'. Some clauses can stand alone, like 'I love you'. Other clauses cannot stand alone, like 'and always will'. Sentences with fewer clauses are easier to understand.
Betelgeuse\n\nBetelgeuse is a big red star in the sky. It is in the Orion shape, which looks like a hunter. Betelgeuse is very big, much bigger than our Sun. It is so big that if it were in our sky, it would look like a giant red ball. Betelgeuse is not very old, but it is very heavy. It will one day explode in a big flash. You can see Betelgeuse in the night sky. It is one of the brightest stars.
Ancient Greece\n\nAncient Greece was a big area near the Mediterranean Sea where people spoke Greek. It was much bigger than the country of Greece today. The people did not have one ruler. Instead, there were many city-states, like Athens and Sparta. Each city-state had its own rules. Some had kings, and some let people vote. The Greeks learned to read and write from another people called the Phoenicians. They made the alphabet that we use today. Many Greek cities were near the sea because the land was rough. They built new cities along the coast. The Greeks made beautiful buildings and statues. One famous building is the Parthenon. Ancient Greece ended when the Romans took over.
Mouse\n\nA mouse is a very small animal with a pointy nose, round ears, and a long tail. Mice can be gray or brown. Some mice live in people's houses and look for food. People also keep mice as pets. Mice eat seeds, berries, and weeds. Owls, snakes, and cats like to eat mice. Baby mice are called pups. Some mice in cartoons, like Mickey Mouse, walk and talk like people, but real mice do not do that.
Brazil nut\n\nA Brazil nut is a food that comes from a very tall tree in the Amazon rainforest. The tree can grow very big and live for a long, long time, even hundreds of years. The nuts grow inside a hard fruit that falls from the tree. People eat the nuts as a snack.
Cliff\n\nA cliff is a very steep wall of rock that goes straight up and down. You can see cliffs by the ocean, in the mountains, and along rivers. Cliffs are made of hard rock that does not break apart easily. Sometimes water falls from the top of a cliff and makes a waterfall. The tallest cliff in the whole solar system is on a moon of Uranus, and it is very, very high.
Asmara\n\nAsmara is a city in Africa. It is the biggest city and the capital of a country called Eritrea. About 579,000 people live there. Long ago, four small villages joined together to make Asmara. The name means "the four females united" in a local language. In the 1930s, people from Italy built many buildings in Asmara that look like buildings in Italy. Some of those buildings are still there today. People in Asmara make clothes, meat, beer, shoes, and ceramics.
Skateboarding\n\nSkateboarding is riding on a skateboard and doing tricks. A skateboard is a flat board with four wheels. People who skateboard are called skateboarders. Skateboarding can be a fun hobby or a way to get around town. It is also a sport in the Olympics. You should always wear a helmet and pads on your knees, elbows, and wrists to stay safe. Skateboarders learn tricks like the ollie, where they jump with the board, and the kickflip, where they spin the board with their foot.
Nebula\n\nA nebula is a big cloud of dust and gas in space. Some nebulae are where new stars are born. The gas and dust come together and get hot, and then a star starts to shine. Other nebulae are what is left after a star dies and explodes. Some nebulae make their own light, some just reflect light from nearby stars, and some are dark and block the light from stars behind them. The Crab Nebula is a famous one that was made when a star exploded a long time ago.
Brittany\n\nBrittany is a place in the northwest of France. It is next to the big ocean. The weather there is not too hot and not too cold. It rains a lot in winter. The biggest city in Brittany is called Rennes. Long ago, Brittany was its own country. Now it is part of France. People in Brittany speak French and also a special language called Breton. There are many old stones standing up in the ground in a place called Carnac. Farmers in Brittany grow food and raise pigs and chickens. There is also a dog breed called Brittany.
Satire\n\nSatire is a way to make fun of people or things in a funny way. It can be in books, shows, or movies. People use satire to show when someone is being silly or doing something wrong. A long time ago, a writer named Swift wrote a book called 'Gulliver's Travels' that made fun of people. Today, some cartoons and comedians use satire to make us laugh and think.
Latvia\n\nLatvia is a country in Northern Europe. Its capital city is Riga. Latvia is next to Estonia, Lithuania, Russia, and Belarus. People from Latvia are called Latvians, and they speak the Latvian language. Long ago, people in Latvia fished, hunted, and traded. Many different groups ruled Latvia over time. Latvia became its own country in 1918, then later joined the European Union in 2004. Latvia has many small towns and big cities where people live and work.
Insect\n\nAn insect is a small animal with six legs and a hard outside skin. Insects live almost everywhere on land. They are the biggest group of animals in the world. There are more kinds of insects than all other animals put together. An insect has three body parts: a head, a middle part called the thorax, and a back part called the abdomen. On its head are two feelers and big eyes. Most insects have wings and can fly. They start life as an egg. Some baby insects look like tiny grown-ups. Others look like worms and change shape inside a cocoon before becoming grown-ups. Insects are cold-blooded, so they like warm places. In winter, many insects sleep until spring. Spiders are not insects because they have eight legs.
Balloon\n\nA balloon is a bag that you fill with air or gas. Most balloons are made from thin, stretchy rubber and come in many colors. People use small balloons for parties and decorations. Some balloons are made to look like animals. Big balloons called hot air balloons can lift people up into the sky. You can also fill a balloon with water and have a water balloon fight.
Brass\n\nBrass is a kind of metal that looks golden. It is made by mixing two other metals: copper and zinc. Brass is harder than pure metals and does not rust easily. People use brass to make things like door handles, musical instruments, and coins. Brass can be melted and shaped into many different forms. Almost all brass can be recycled and used again.
Monaco\n\nMonaco is a very small country on the Mediterranean Sea, next to France. It is the second smallest country in the world, after Vatican City. The whole country is just one city. Many rich people live there because they do not have to pay taxes. Monaco is famous for the Monte Carlo Casino and a big car race called the Monaco Grand Prix. The prince of Monaco is named Albert II. People in Monaco speak French. The money they use is called the euro.
Rome\n\nRome is a big city in Italy. It is the capital of Italy and has many people living there. Rome is very old and has a long history. A long time ago, Rome was the center of a big empire. The city has many old buildings, like the Colosseum. Rome also has many fountains, more than any other city in the world. The Vatican City is inside Rome, where the Pope lives. Rome has an airport and trains that go to other cities. Children in Rome go to school from age six to sixteen.
Music of Africa\n\nMusic of Africa is the music people make in Africa. Africa is a very big place with many countries, so the music sounds different in each part. People use music for special times like when they pray or have a party. They sing songs and dance to tell stories from long ago. Some African music mixes with American pop music to make a new kind of music called Afropop. People all over the world like to listen and dance to it.
Marten\n\nA marten is a small animal that lives in forests. It has a thin body, a long bushy tail, short legs, and a pointed face. Its fur is brown with a lighter chest. Martens hunt at night and eat small animals like mice, rabbits, and squirrels, as well as fish, bugs, eggs, and berries. They have claws that can pull back like a cat's, so they can climb trees easily. Martens like to live alone and do not want other martens too close. Baby martens are called kits, and they are born blind and without fur in early spring.
Rugby League\n\nRugby League is a ball game where two teams of 13 players try to score points. The ball is shaped like an oval. The field is a big rectangle, 100 meters long and 70 meters wide. The game lasts 80 minutes, split into two halves of 40 minutes each. To score a try, a player must put the ball down in the special area at the end of the field. A try gives 4 points, and if the team kicks the ball through the goal posts after, they get 2 more points. You can also score with a drop goal or a penalty kick. Rugby League is played in many countries like Australia, England, and New Zealand. The best teams play in the Rugby League World Cup.
Steam locomotive\n\nA steam locomotive is a big train engine that uses steam to move. It was used a lot from about 1830 to 1970. People burned coal in a special box called a firebox. The fire made hot air that went through tubes in a big tank of water. The water got hot and turned into steam. The steam went into a tube and pushed a part called a piston. The piston moved a metal rod that turned the wheels. Then the steam went out through the chimney. Today, most trains use electricity or diesel, but some places still use steam locomotives.
Leech\n\nA leech is a kind of worm that lives in wet places. Some leeches live in water and can swim. Other leeches live on land in wet and humid areas. A leech has a long body made of 34 parts. Some leeches eat tiny animals. Other leeches drink blood from bigger animals, like people.
Flute\n\nA flute is a musical instrument that makes sound when you blow into it. The person who plays the flute is called a flautist. Most flutes today are made of metal, like silver or gold, but long ago they were made of wood. The flute player holds it sideways and blows across a hole at one end. This makes the air inside move and creates a sound. You can change the sound by pressing buttons called keys or by blowing harder or softer. The flute can make high, bright sounds that remind people of birds. It can also make soft, sad sounds. Flutes are used in many kinds of music, like in orchestras and bands. There are many different flutes from all over the world, like the bansuri from India, the shakuhachi from Japan, and the pan pipes from Greece.
Slavs\n\nSlavs are a group of people who live in many countries in Europe and Asia. There are more Slavs than any other group of people in Europe. Some Slavs are called Russians, Poles, Ukrainians, Czechs, Slovaks, and many other names. They speak languages that are a lot alike, like Polish and Slovak. Many Slavs live in Russia, Poland, and Ukraine. Some Slavs live in other places too, like Germany and China.
Hoopoe\n\nA hoopoe is a colorful bird with a special crown of feathers on its head. It lives in many warm places across the world. The hoopoe makes a sound like 'hoop-oop-oop,' and that is how it got its name. It has a long, thin beak and pretty orange, black, and white feathers.
Christianity\n\nChristianity is a religion about Jesus. People who follow this religion are called Christians. They believe Jesus is God's son and that he came to earth to teach people how to be good. Christians believe Jesus died on a cross and then came back to life. They celebrate this on Easter. Christians read a special book called the Bible. It has two parts: the Old Testament and the New Testament. The New Testament tells stories about Jesus and his friends, the apostles. Many Christians go to a building called a church to pray and sing songs. There are different kinds of Christianity, like Catholic, Protestant, and Orthodox. All of them believe in Jesus.
Banknote\n\nA banknote is a piece of paper that people use to buy things. It is also called a bill. Banknotes are a kind of money, just like coins. Coins are for small amounts, and banknotes are for bigger amounts. Long ago, people used gold or silver to pay for things. But carrying heavy metal was hard and not safe. So banks started making paper notes that promised to give gold or silver if you brought the paper back. Later, people just used the paper to pay for things. Today, banknotes have pictures and numbers on them to show how much they are worth.
Raspberry\n\nA raspberry is a small red fruit that is made of many tiny parts stuck together. It looks like a blackberry, but it is hollow inside. You can buy raspberries at the store. The plant that grows raspberries has leaves that people use to make tea. Raspberry plants grow in fields or in open spaces in the woods. They are easy to grow in places that are not too hot or too cold. The plant makes new stalks each year, and the fruit grows on those stalks. Some plants give fruit in the summer, and some give fruit in both summer and fall. Raspberries are sweet and good to eat.
Mother\n\nA mother is a woman who has a baby. She is also called mom or mommy. A mother takes care of her child. She feeds the baby milk. Some mothers adopt children and love them just as much. A mother's family is called her family. In many languages, mother is called mama, madre, or mutter.
Personal protective equipment\n\nPersonal protective equipment, or PPE for short, are special clothes and things you wear to keep your body safe. You might see people wearing them at the doctor's office or on a building site. Some examples are hard hats to protect your head, safety glasses to protect your eyes, and gloves to protect your hands. These things help stop you from getting hurt.
Latin America\n\nLatin America is a big part of the world. It includes many countries in South America and Central America, and some islands in the Caribbean Sea. People there speak Spanish or Portuguese. Some people also speak old languages from Native Americans. Many people in Latin America like to make music, dance, and tell stories. The biggest cities are very big and have lots of people. Most people are Christians. Some countries are very poor, and many people do not have enough food.
Sailing (sport)\n\nSailing is a sport where people race boats that are pushed by the wind. The boats can be small or big. Small boats often race against other boats that look just like them. Big boats race with a special system to make it fair. A big sailing race is called a regatta. Some races go around floating markers near the shore. Other races go far across the open ocean. The America's Cup is a famous sailing race that started in 1851. Sailing is also in the Olympic Games. People who sail must be strong and smart to make the boat go fast.
Head of state\n\nA head of state is the top leader of a country. In some countries, the head of state is a president chosen by the people. In other countries, the head of state is a king or queen who gets the job from their family. Some heads of state help run the government, like the president of the United States. Other heads of state just represent the country and do not run the government, like the king or queen of the United Kingdom.
Multiplication\n\nMultiplication is a way to add the same number many times. For example, three times five means adding three fives together, which makes fifteen. You can write it as 3 times 5 equals 15. Multiplication helps you find out how many things there are in a rectangle. If you have 3 rows and 5 columns of tiles, you have 15 tiles in all. The opposite of multiplication is division. Teachers often ask children to learn a multiplication table to help them multiply faster.
Wheel\n\nA wheel is a round shape that spins. It helps things move along the ground. A wheel is a simple machine. Most cars, bikes, and trains have wheels. A wheel can be attached to a rod called an axle. The wheel and axle turn together. The middle part of the wheel is called the hub. Some wheels have teeth and are called gears. People use wheels on many things like carts, wheelchairs, and skateboards. A long time ago, people in a place called Mesopotamia made the first wheel. Early wheels were solid circles. Later, wheels had spokes like on a bike.
Breastfeeding\n\nBreastfeeding is when a mother gives her baby milk from her body. The baby puts its mouth on the mother's nipple and sucks the milk out. This milk is called breastmilk. Breastmilk is the best food for most babies. It helps babies grow strong and stay healthy. Breastfeeding can also help mothers stay healthy. Most mothers can make enough milk for their babies. Some mothers use a special tool called a breast pump to take milk out and save it for later. The milk can be kept in a clean container in the fridge. Babies who breastfeed have a lower chance of getting sick. Breastfeeding costs less than buying baby formula. The World Health Organization says babies should only have breastmilk for the first six months. After that, babies can start eating other foods too. When a baby stops breastfeeding, that is called weaning. Weaning should happen slowly over many weeks. Some babies stop breastfeeding on their own, but most need help from their mother.
Eating\n\nEating is when you put food in your mouth and swallow it. People and animals eat to get energy to run, jump, and play. Plants make their own food from sunlight, but people and animals cannot do that. We eat plants or animals to get the energy we need. When you eat an apple or a sandwich, you are getting energy from the sun that the plant used to grow.
Electric charge\n\nElectric charge is a special power that tiny bits inside everything have. Some tiny bits, called electrons, have a minus charge. Other tiny bits, called protons, have a plus charge. Things with different charges pull together. Things with the same charge push apart. This is why electrons and protons stick together to make everything around us. When you rub your feet on a carpet, you can pick up extra electrons. Then if you touch a metal doorknob, the electrons jump across and you feel a little shock. That shock can make your hair stand up because each hair has the same charge and pushes away from the others. Lightning is a very big shock from clouds. The shock can be dangerous if too many electrons flow through you.
Symphony\n\nA symphony is a long piece of music that a big group of players called an orchestra plays together. It is usually split into three or four parts, and each part is called a movement. The first movement is often fast, the second is slow, and the last one is called the Finale. Many famous people like Beethoven and Mozart wrote symphonies.
Weapon\n\nA weapon is something people use to hurt other people or animals. Long ago, people used rocks and sticks as weapons. Later, they made bows and arrows, swords, and big machines that threw rocks. Then people invented guns that shoot bullets. Some weapons, like bombs, can hurt many people at once. Today, countries make rules about which weapons people can have.
North Sea\n\nThe North Sea is a big body of salt water in northern Europe. It is part of the Atlantic Ocean. The North Sea sits between Norway and Denmark on one side, and Scotland and England on the other. It also touches Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, and France. The North Sea is not very deep — only about as deep as a tall building. Many ships travel on it, making it one of the busiest seas in the world. Rivers like the Thames and the Rhine flow into it. People fish in the North Sea for food, but we must be careful not to take too many fish. Birds like puffins and terns live along its shores.
Spleen\n\nThe spleen is an organ inside your body. It sits on the left side, under your heart. The spleen helps fight germs and keeps your blood healthy. It cleans out old blood cells and saves the good parts. It also stores extra blood in case your body needs it fast. The spleen is shaped like a loose fist. Sometimes it gets bigger when you are sick. If it gets too big, it can break open, and you would need a doctor right away. Long ago, people thought the spleen controlled feelings like anger.
Cookware and bakeware\n\nCookware and bakeware are tools that help people cook food. Frying pans and pots are cookware. Bakeware is for baking in the oven. People have used these tools for a very long time. Some pans are made of aluminum, which is light and heats up fast. Cast iron pans are heavy and get very hot, but they can turn some foods black. Stainless steel pans are strong and do not rust, so many people use them every day.
Curling\n\nCurling is a sport played on ice. Players slide heavy stones called curling stones toward a target called the house. Two teams play, with four players on each team. Each team slides eight stones, and that is called an end. After an end, the team with the stone closest to the center of the house gets points. The game ends after eight or ten ends. The team with the most points wins. The player sliding the stone can make it turn slowly. Two other players sweep the ice in front of the stone with brooms to help it stop in the right place. Curling is played at the Winter Olympics. It was first played in Scotland a long time ago, outside on ice in winter. Now people play curling in many countries like Canada, the United States, Japan, and South Korea.
Connector\n\nA connector is a thing that helps two wires or parts join together so electricity can move from one to the other. You can find connectors on the end of a phone charger or on the back of a computer. They have a special shape so they only fit one way.
Opera\n\nOpera is a story that is sung instead of talked. It is like a play, but the actors sing all their words. The singers stand on a stage, and a big group of musicians called an orchestra plays music in front of the stage, down in a special place called the orchestra pit. The people watching sit in the audience. An opera is split into parts called acts. Sometimes there is a song for one singer, called an aria. Sometimes a big group of singers sings together, called a chorus. The music at the very start is called an overture. Some operas are funny, and some are sad. The singers have to have very loud voices so everyone can hear them. They also have to be good at acting. Operas are often in other languages like Italian or French, but sometimes the words are shown on a screen so the audience can understand.
Tourism\n\nTourism is when people travel to new places for fun and adventure. People who do this are called tourists. They might go sightseeing, camping, or stay at a resort. Tourism can help places, but it can also cause problems like litter or damage to nature. Sometimes local traditions change because of tourists.
Epilepsy\n\nEpilepsy is a problem in the brain that makes a person shake a lot. This shaking is called a seizure. Some seizures are short and hard to see, and others last longer. Many people have epilepsy, about one out of every one hundred people. Doctors say someone has epilepsy if they have had at least two seizures for no clear reason. Medicine can help most people have fewer seizures. Some people need to eat special food to feel better. Epilepsy can start when someone is a baby or when they are old. Not getting enough sleep or drinking too much alcohol can cause a seizure. People with epilepsy may not be allowed to drive a car until they have not had a seizure for a long time.
Future\n\nThe future is time that has not happened yet. When something happens, it is called the present. After it happens, it is called the past. Some stories on TV or in books are about the future. Those stories are often called science fiction.
Puberty\n\nPuberty is when a child's body changes into an adult body. This happens to everyone. Girls start around age 10, and boys start around age 12. During puberty, hair grows in new places. Girls' bodies get curvier, and they start having a monthly period. Boys' voices get deeper, and they get taller and stronger. Hormones are special chemicals inside the body that tell it to change. These changes can make you feel happy, sad, or confused. It is normal to have big feelings during puberty. Your body is growing up, and that takes time.
Piranha\n\nA piranha is a fish that lives in warm rivers and lakes in South America. It has sharp teeth and likes to eat meat. Piranhas swim together in big groups. They eat other fish, bugs, and even dead animals. During the day, they are very active. Many animals eat piranhas, like big birds, turtles, and other fish. People also catch and eat piranhas.
Sea\n\nA sea is a very big body of water that is salty. The ocean is a sea. Some seas are big lakes with salt water, like the Caspian Sea. Seawater is salty because it has salt in it, like the salt you eat. The sun warms the top of the sea. Near the poles, the water is very cold. Cold water sinks, and warm water stays on top. This makes the water move around the world. Wind blows on the sea and makes waves. Big waves can be very tall. Many fish and other animals live in the sea.
Mauritius\n\nMauritius is a small island country in the Indian Ocean. It is far away from big lands. The capital city is Port Louis. Long ago, the dodo bird lived only on Mauritius, but now it is gone. The flag of Mauritius has four colors: red, blue, yellow, and green. Many people live there and trade with other countries. The island has pretty beaches and coral reefs.
Broadcasting\n\nBroadcasting is when people send TV shows or music through the air or wires to many people at once. You can watch a show on your TV or listen to music on a radio because of broadcasting. Some broadcasters are paid by the government, like the BBC in Britain. Others are private companies that show commercials to make money. There are also community broadcasters that make shows about local events. Broadcasting can also mean sending a message from one computer to many other computers at the same time.
Embroidery\n\nEmbroidery is when you use a needle and thread to make pictures or patterns on cloth. You can add beads, pearls, or shiny pieces to make it look pretty. Some people use a sewing machine to do embroidery fast. People who are very good at embroidery can teach others how to do it.
Civil engineering\n\nCivil engineering is a job where people build big things like bridges, roads, tunnels, and dams. They also build houses and make sure we have clean water to drink and places for dirty water to go. Civil engineers plan, build, and fix these things. They work with other people like architects. To become a civil engineer, you need to go to school and learn about buildings, materials, and math. Some civil engineers take a special test to show they are very good at their job.
Galpagos Islands\n\nThe Galapagos Islands are a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. They belong to a country called Ecuador. The islands are special because they have animals that live nowhere else on Earth, like giant tortoises. A man named Charles Darwin visited the islands a long time ago and learned how animals change over time. The islands were made by volcanoes, and some volcanoes are still active today. About 30,000 people live on the islands, mostly in towns like Puerto Ayora. Many tourists visit to see the animals and the beautiful nature.
Red Sea\n\nThe Red Sea is a big body of salt water between Africa and Asia. It is part of the Indian Ocean. The Red Sea is very long and not very wide. Many ships travel through it because a special water path called the Suez Channel connects it to another sea. The Red Sea got its name because sometimes it looks red. That happens because tiny red plants called algae grow in the water. The water in the Red Sea is very salty and clear. Almost no rivers pour into it. The weather is warm and dry all year. Many people go there on vacation, especially in winter. They like to swim and look at the colorful coral reefs and fish under the water. Some towns by the Red Sea are Sharm el-Sheikh, Eilat, and Hurghada.
Venezuela\n\nVenezuela is a country in South America. The capital city is Caracas. People there speak Spanish and other languages. Venezuela has the tallest waterfall in the world, called Angel Falls. The country has a lot of oil, which is used to make gasoline. Many people in Venezuela are poor. Some people have moved to other countries and send money back to their families. Long ago, the Spanish came and brought slaves from Africa. Today, most people in Venezuela are Catholic. The country became free in 1823 with help from a man named Simón Bolívar.
Israel\n\nIsrael is a small country in Asia, next to the Mediterranean Sea. Its capital city is Jerusalem. About 9.8 million people live there. Most are Jewish, and some are Arab. Israel is a place where two big religions, Judaism and Christianity, started long ago. Many stories from the Bible happened there. The country has a long history with many wars. Today, Israel is a democracy where people vote. Almost everyone can read and write. The weather is warm and sunny in many parts.
Osiris\n\nOsiris is a god from old Egypt. He was the god of life, death, and the world after we die. Osiris was a kind and smart king who taught people how to farm and how to be good. He had a brother named Set who was mean and tricked Osiris into a box so he could not get out. Osiris died, but his wife Isis brought him back for one night. Their son Horus grew up and became the new king. Osiris looks like a wrapped-up mummy with green skin. He wears a tall white hat with feathers and holds a stick and a whip. He judges people after they die and keeps them safe in the underworld.
Bus\n\nA bus is a big car that carries many people. It has wheels and a driver. Buses can take you to school, to the store, or to other towns. Some buses have two floors, like a house on wheels. You wait for a bus at a bus stop. The word "bus" means "for everyone" in an old language.
Mood\n\nA mood is how you feel inside. You can be in a good mood when you are happy, or a bad mood when you are sad or mad. Your mood can last for a few hours or a few days. Sometimes things that happen can change your mood. If something nice happens, you might feel happy. If something sad happens, you might feel sad. Some people are often in a good mood, and some people are often in a bad mood.
Musical notation\n\nMusical notation is a way to write down music so people can play it. Today, most musicians write notes on five lines called a staff. The notes show how high or low to play and how long to hold each sound. Music is read from left to right, like reading a book. Writing music helps a person who makes up a song tell others how it should sound. Long ago, people wrote music with dots and lines called neumes. A monk named Guido d'Arezzo helped make the system we use now. Some music is written with words under the notes for singing. Big groups like an orchestra use a score with many staffs stacked together.
Irish Sea\n\nThe Irish Sea is a big body of water between Ireland and Great Britain. Many ships carry people and things across it. Fish and shellfish live in the sea, and people catch them for food. Sharks, dolphins, and whales swim in the Irish Sea too. Some big machines in the sea get oil and gas from under the ground.
Saint George\n\nSaint George is a man from a long time ago. He is the special saint of England and some other countries. There is a story about Saint George and a dragon. In the story, a dragon lived near a lake and scared the people. Every day the people gave the dragon a sheep to eat. When there were no more sheep, they gave their children. One day the king's daughter was chosen. Saint George saw her and stayed to help. He hurt the dragon with his long spear. Then the princess put her belt around the dragon's neck, and the dragon followed her like a pet. Saint George took the dragon to the city. He said he would kill the dragon if the people became Christians. The people did, and George killed the dragon with his sword. The story shows good winning over bad. On Saint George's Day, April 23, some people in England wear a red rose or put up the English flag. The flag is white with a red cross.
Renminbi\n\nThe renminbi is the money used in China. It is also called the yuan. People use it to buy things in China. One yuan is like one dollar. A yuan is split into ten jiao, and each jiao is split into ten fen. The money comes in paper bills and metal coins. You can get bills from 1 jiao to 100 yuan. Coins are from 1 fen to 1 yuan. Small coins are not used much. If you visit China, you can bring some renminbi with you.
Ferry\n\nA ferry is a big boat that carries people, cars, and even trains across water like seas, lakes, and rivers. Some places can only be reached by ferry because there are no bridges or tunnels. Sometimes you have to pay to ride a ferry, and sometimes it is free. The word 'ferry' can also mean to take someone or something on a ferry.
Knot\n\nA knot is a loop you make in a string or rope. You can tie a knot to hold things together. People tie knots in their shoelaces so they stay on their feet. You can also tie a knot in a ribbon to make a gift look pretty. Sailors make many kinds of knots to help on boats. Some people even make knots just for fun.
Itaipu Dam\n\nThe Itaipu Dam is a very big wall that holds water on the Paran River. It sits between two countries, Brazil and Paraguay. The dam makes electricity by using moving water. It is one of the Seven Wonders of the Modern World. The dam is very long and very tall. It is one of the biggest dams in the whole world.
Forestry\n\nForestry is a job where people take care of forests. A person who does this job is called a forester. Forests are big places with many trees. They are important because they give us clean air to breathe and water to drink. Some forests are being cut down for wood or to make room for farms. Foresters help keep the forest healthy for animals and people. They also stop wildfires from burning the trees. People can visit forests to play and have fun. Foresters learn about trees, animals, and plants in school.
Irregular galaxy\n\nAn irregular galaxy is a big group of stars in space that does not have a round or swirly shape. It looks messy and bumpy. Many of these galaxies were once round or swirly but got pulled out of shape by other galaxies. They have lots of gas and dust inside. About one out of every four galaxies is an irregular galaxy.
Romantic music\n\nRomantic music is music that people wrote a long time ago, in the 1800s. In this music, feelings and stories are very important. Some songs tell a story about nature, like the countryside or the sea. Other songs are about being in love. Composers also used folk songs from their own countries to make music sound special. This music can be loud and exciting or soft and dreamy.
Circus\n\nA circus is a show where people do fun and amazing things. There are acrobats who jump and flip, clowns who make you laugh, and jugglers who throw things in the air. The show happens inside a big tent called the "Big Top." People sit on seats that go up high. The middle part where the performers do their tricks is called the "ring." The person who tells everyone what to do is the ringmaster. Some circuses travel to different towns. Long ago, circuses had wild animals like lions and elephants, but now many people think it is not nice to make animals do tricks, so some circuses do not use them anymore.
Coat\n\nA coat is a piece of clothing you wear on your upper body. It keeps you warm when it is cold outside. Some coats keep you dry when it rains. A coat usually has long sleeves and fastens at the front. Some coats have a hood for your head. A jacket is a kind of coat.
Penguin\n\nA penguin is a bird that lives in cold places. It cannot fly in the air, but it can swim very well in the ocean. Penguins use their flippers like little wings to swim underwater. They eat fish, krill, and squid. Penguins have a white belly and a black back. This helps them hide from animals that want to eat them. The biggest penguin is the emperor penguin, which can be almost as tall as a four-year-old child. The smallest is the little penguin, which is only about as tall as a ruler. Penguins have thick feathers and a layer of fat to keep them warm. They waddle when they walk on land. Penguins lay eggs and take turns keeping them warm. A group of penguins is sometimes called a raft.
Embryo\n\nAn embryo is the very first stage of a baby animal or plant. It starts as a tiny egg that has been joined by a seed from a daddy. The embryo grows inside the mommy's body or inside a seed. For people, it is called an embryo for about eight weeks. After that, it is called a fetus. The embryo starts as one tiny cell, then it splits into more and more cells until it becomes a baby.
Western United States\n\nThe Western United States is a big part of the country. It is the land on the west side of the United States. Long ago, people thought the West started at the Appalachian Mountains. Now, the Mississippi River is often the line that shows where the West begins. The West has mountains and land near the ocean. It is where cowboys and pioneers lived a long time ago. Many stories and movies are about the Old West.
Kite\n\nA kite is a toy that flies in the sky. It is tied to a long string that you hold from the ground. Kites were first made in China a very long time ago. They come in many shapes and sizes. Some kites are big and colorful. Some are small and fast. You can fly a kite on a windy day. The wind pushes the kite up high. People fly kites for fun and in contests.
Turtle\n\nA turtle is a reptile with a hard shell on its back. The shell keeps it safe from other animals. Turtles live on land and in water all over the world, except in very cold places like Antarctica. Some turtles live in the ocean, and some live in rivers or ponds. Turtles have a hard beak instead of teeth. They use it to cut their food. Some turtles eat meat, and some eat plants. Turtles lay eggs on sandy beaches or in holes in the ground. When baby turtles hatch, they crawl to the water by themselves. No mother turtle takes care of them. Turtles can live for a very long time. The biggest turtle is the leatherback sea turtle. It can be as long as a tall person and weigh as much as a car. Turtles have been on Earth for a very long time, even before dinosaurs.
Meaning\n\nMeaning is what someone wants to tell you with words or actions. When you talk to a friend, your words have meaning. When you smile, that smile has meaning too. Meaning helps us understand each other. Even animals use sounds and smells to send meaning.
Leaf\n\nA leaf is a flat, green part of a plant that grows above the ground. It helps the plant make food from sunlight. Leaves are thin so sunlight can reach inside them. Most leaves are green because they have a special green stuff called chlorophyll. In the fall, some leaves change color and fall off the tree. These trees are called deciduous. Trees that keep their leaves all year are called evergreens. Leaves come in many shapes and sizes. Some are big, and some are small. Leaves have tiny holes called stomata that let air in and out. They also have veins that carry water and food. Some leaves have small hairs on them. The outside of a leaf has a waxy layer that keeps water inside.
Venus\n\nVenus is the second planet from the Sun. It is very bright in the night sky, only the Moon is brighter. Venus is sometimes called the morning star or the evening star because you can see it just before sunrise or just after sunset. Venus is the hottest planet in our Solar System. It is covered with thick clouds that trap heat, like a blanket. The clouds are made of a poison that would hurt us. Venus has no moons. It spins very slowly and in the opposite direction from most other planets. The surface is rocky and dry, with many volcanoes. No one can live on Venus because it is too hot and the air is too heavy.
Electric ray\n\nAn electric ray is a flat fish that lives in the ocean. It has a round body like a pancake and a long tail. Electric rays have special parts on their heads that can make electricity, like a battery. They use this electricity to shock other fish and to protect themselves. Some electric rays can make a shock as big as 220 volts. They are slow and lazy fish. They hide under the sand and wait for small fish to swim by. Then they zap them with electricity and eat them. Electric rays live in warm, shallow water near the shore.
Clock\n\nA clock is a thing that tells you what time it is. Some clocks have a round face with numbers and two or three moving sticks called hands. The short hand shows the hour, and the long hand shows the minutes. Some clocks show the time with numbers, like 3:00. Those are called digital clocks. Clocks can also have alarms that make a sound to wake you up. Some clocks use batteries, and some use springs or weights. A clock on your wrist is called a watch.
Groundwater\n\nGroundwater is water that is under the ground. It hides in the tiny spaces between dirt and rocks. This water starts as rain that falls from the sky and soaks into the ground. It stays there for a long time. Sometimes the water comes back up through springs and rivers. Plants drink groundwater with their roots. People dig deep holes called wells to get the water out. They use it to water gardens and for other things.
Kidney\n\nYour kidneys are two parts inside your body that look like beans. They clean your blood and make pee. Pee is how your body gets rid of stuff it does not need. Your kidneys also help keep the right amount of water and salt in your body. If you drink a lot of water, your kidneys make more pee. If you do not drink enough water, your kidneys make less pee. Sometimes kidneys get sick and do not work well. Then a doctor can help by using a machine to clean the blood, or by giving the person a new kidney from another person.
Suburb\n\nA suburb is a part of a town or city that is a little away from the very busy center. In a suburb, there are mostly houses, schools, and small shops, not many big buildings. People often live in houses with gardens and parks nearby. Many people who live in suburbs go to the city center to work by bus, train, or car. Suburbs grow as cities get bigger, and sometimes they take over the countryside around them.
Secretarybird\n\nA secretarybird is a very tall bird that lives in Africa. It walks on the ground to find food. It eats bugs, mice, lizards, snakes, and even baby birds. This bird is famous for hunting snakes. It stomps on snakes with its feet to break their backs. The secretarybird is almost as tall as a grown-up person.
Rhinoceros\n\nA rhinoceros is a very big animal with thick skin and one or two horns on its nose. It lives in Africa and Asia. Rhinos eat plants, branches, bushes, or grass. They can be very heavy and tall. Some rhinos are in danger because people hunt them for their horns. People also cut down the forests where rhinos live. Governments are trying to protect rhinos by making it against the law to hunt them or cut down their homes.
Collage\n\nCollage is a kind of art where you stick pieces of paper, cloth, or other things onto a flat surface like paper or wood. You can cut out pictures from magazines or use fabric scraps to make a picture. It is like a painting, but made with many different pieces. Some collages also have paint or photos on them.
Ice sheet\n\nAn ice sheet is a very big, thick layer of ice that covers a huge area of land. It is like a giant frozen blanket. Ice sheets are found in very cold places near the North and South Poles. Right now, there are only two ice sheets on Earth. One covers almost all of Antarctica, and the other covers most of Greenland. The ice sheet in Antarctica is the biggest one. It holds most of the fresh water on Earth. If all that ice melted, the ocean would get much deeper. The ice sheet in Greenland is smaller, but it is also melting. Long ago, there were more ice sheets, but now they are only in these two places. The bottom of an ice sheet can be warmer than the top, and sometimes the ice melts a little and makes the ice sheet slide faster.
Friendship\n\nFriendship is when two people like each other and want to be together. Friends talk, play, and help each other when someone is sad or hurt. A friend is someone you can trust and look up to. Friends usually like the same things, like playing games or drawing. Sometimes a friend is very special, and we call that person a best friend. Friends can be happy together, but sometimes they might feel upset if they do not agree. That is okay because friends try to understand each other. Most people find friends when they are young, but some find friends later. Friends can stop being friends if they stop talking or have different ideas. Many movies and TV shows are about friends having fun together.
Actor\n\nAn actor is a person who pretends to be someone else in a movie, TV show, play, or on the radio. Actors can be men or women. Sometimes they sing or dance. The first actor we know about was a Greek man named Thespis, who lived a very long time ago. He was the first person to speak words as a character in a play. Today, actors are sometimes called 'thespians' because of him. Some actors work on a stage in front of people. They learn where to stand and how to move. Other actors work in movies or on TV. They learn to act in front of a camera. Some actors only use their voice for cartoon characters. That is called voice acting. Acting can be a fun job.
Mesozoic\n\nThe Mesozoic was a very long time ago when dinosaurs lived on Earth. It started about 252 million years ago and ended 65 million years ago. During the Mesozoic, the world was much warmer than today. There was no ice at the North or South Pole. The land was all together in one big piece called Pangaea at the start, but then it slowly broke apart. Dinosaurs were the biggest animals on land. Some dinosaurs ate plants like ferns and conifer trees. Others ate meat. The first tiny mammals also lived during the Mesozoic, but they were small and only came out at night. At the end of the Mesozoic, a big event killed all the dinosaurs except the ones that turned into birds.
Subculture\n\nA subculture is a group of people who like the same things and do things in their own special way. They might dress alike, listen to the same music, or have secret words that only they know. This makes them different from most other people. Some subcultures are about hobbies, like skateboarding or drawing. Others are about the way people live, like homeless people or street dancers. Sometimes grown-ups make rules to stop some subcultures, but many subcultures are just fun groups of friends.
Pollination\n\nPollination is how plants make seeds to grow new plants. It happens when tiny bits called pollen move from one flower to another. Some pollen is moved by the wind, like for corn plants. Other pollen is moved by bees and butterflies. Bees fly from flower to flower to get sweet nectar, and pollen sticks to their fuzzy bodies. When they visit the next flower, some pollen rubs off. That helps the flower make a seed. The seed can grow into a new plant. Flowers that need bees are often bright yellow or blue. Flowers that use the wind are small and not colorful.
Gold\n\nGold is a soft, bright yellow metal that people have used for a very long time. It is easy to shape, so people can hammer it into thin sheets or pull it into long wires. Gold does not rust or change color, and it does not get hurt by most things. People use gold to make pretty jewelry, like rings and necklaces. Long ago, people used gold coins as money. Gold is also used to fix teeth and in computers. Gold is rare, which makes it special. It is found in nature as nuggets or tiny bits in rocks and riverbeds. Most gold comes from space, from stars that exploded or crashed together. Gold is safe to touch, but the chemicals used to get it from rocks can be dangerous.
Shrike\n\nA shrike is a bird that eats bugs and small animals. It is sometimes called a 'butcher bird' because it sticks its food on a sharp thorn to eat it later. Most shrikes live in Europe, Asia, and Africa. Only two kinds live in North America. No shrikes live in South America or Australia.
Malawi\n\nMalawi is a country in Africa. It is in the south-east part of Africa. The countries next to Malawi are Tanzania, Zambia, and Mozambique. The capital city is Lilongwe. People there speak English and Chichewa. Malawi is called "The Warm Heart of Africa." It is one of the smallest countries in Africa. Lake Malawi is a big lake that takes up a lot of the country. Many people in Malawi grow food on farms. Malawi is a poor country, but the people are friendly.
Mining\n\nMining is digging things out of the ground. Some things we dig up are coal, gold, silver, and diamonds. Sometimes people dig a big hole on top of the ground. Other times they go deep underground in a tunnel. A person who works in a mine is called a miner. Mining can be dangerous, so miners wear special gear to stay safe. Some towns are built just for miners. When the mining stops, the town might become empty.
Logic\n\nLogic is about how we think and figure things out. It helps us decide if something is true or false. People who study logic use short sentences to show how one idea leads to another. For example, if all cats are animals, and Fluffy is a cat, then Fluffy is an animal. That is a logical way to think. Computers also use logic to make decisions. Logic is like a tool that helps us think clearly and correctly.
Chestnut\n\nA chestnut is a tree that grows big and tall. It also gives us nuts to eat. The nuts are brown and shiny. You can roast them over a fire and they taste warm and sweet. The tree has green leaves that turn yellow in the fall.
Inductive reasoning\n\nInductive reasoning is a way of thinking where you look at many things that happen and then guess a big rule. For example, if you see water always go downhill in many places, you might think water always goes downhill. This kind of thinking helps people start to learn about the world, but it is not always right. Sometimes the rule you guess can be wrong, like when people long ago thought the sun moved around the Earth because that is what they saw every day. Later, smart people found a better answer by testing new ideas. So inductive reasoning is like a first step to finding out how things work.
Fossil fuel\n\nFossil fuels are old things from long ago that we dig up from under the ground to make energy. The three main kinds are coal, oil, and natural gas. People burn them to make electricity, to move cars and planes, and to heat homes. But burning them makes the air dirty and warms up the Earth. There is only a little bit of them left, so we cannot make more. Now people are using wind, sun, and water to make energy instead.
Earth's magnetic field\n\nEarth's magnetic field is like a big invisible bubble around our planet. It is made by hot, liquid iron and nickel moving deep inside the Earth. This bubble protects us from tiny, fast pieces from space that could hurt us. A compass uses the magnetic field to show which way is north. Some animals, like birds and whales, also use it to find their way when they travel far. The magnetic field has two ends called the north magnetic pole and the south magnetic pole. These poles are near the top and bottom of the Earth, but they move a little bit every year. Sometimes, the poles switch places, but that takes a very long time.
Earthquake\n\nAn earthquake is when the ground shakes and moves. The Earth's top part is made of big pieces called plates. These plates are always moving very slowly. Sometimes they get stuck, and then they suddenly break free. This makes the ground shake. Strong earthquakes can knock down buildings. People who study earthquakes are called seismologists. They use a tool called a seismometer to feel the shaking. The strength of an earthquake is measured with a number scale from 0 to 10. A big earthquake under the ocean can make a huge wave called a tsunami. Tsunamis can flood land and hurt people. No one can tell when an earthquake will happen, but we know where they might happen, like near big cracks in the ground called faults. Some buildings are made strong so they don't fall down during an earthquake.
Cassowary\n\nA cassowary is a very big bird that cannot fly. It lives in the rainforests of New Guinea and Australia. Cassowaries are shy and stay deep in the forest, but they can be dangerous if they feel scared. They have three toes on each foot, and the middle toe has a long, sharp claw like a knife. They can run fast, jump high, and swim. Cassowaries have a hard bump on top of their head called a casque, which looks like a helmet. Their necks are bright red, blue, purple, and yellow. They eat fruit, snails, mushrooms, and flowers. They help plants grow by spreading seeds in the forest. The male cassowary sits on the eggs and takes care of the babies. Cassowaries are in danger because people cut down forests and cars hit them.
Renaissance\n\nThe Renaissance was a time in Europe a long time ago when people started learning again from old books. It began in Italy and then spread to other places. During this time, many people made beautiful paintings, buildings, and new ideas. One famous person from this time was Leonardo da Vinci, who was good at painting, science, and music. The printing press was invented, so books could be made faster and cheaper. More people could learn to read and write. People also looked at old Roman buildings and statues to learn how to make new ones. The Renaissance helped start the way we live today.
Trilobite\n\nA trilobite is an animal that lived a long, long time ago and is now gone. It had a hard body that was split into three parts: a head, a middle part with many pieces, and a tail. Trilobites were some of the first animals to have eyes. They lived only in salty water, like the ocean. Some crawled on the sea floor, and some swam. They could be very small or as big as a dinner plate. People today find their hard bodies turned into stone, called fossils.
Amazon rainforest\n\nThe Amazon rainforest is a very big forest that is hot and rainy. It is the biggest rainforest in the whole world. The forest is in South America, mostly in a country called Brazil. Many different kinds of animals and plants live there. More than one out of every three kinds of animals and plants in the world live in the Amazon. There are millions of bugs, thousands of birds and fish, and many trees. The trees help clean the air we breathe. People are cutting down too many trees, and the forest is getting smaller. This hurts the animals and plants that live there. Some people are trying to save the forest.
First aid\n\nFirst aid is helping someone who is hurt or sick right away. You do not need many things to give first aid. A box with helpful things is called a first aid kit. You can help even without a kit if you know what to do. First aid can be done anywhere, like at home or outside. People learn first aid from books, videos, and teachers. They practice on a dummy to learn how to push on a chest. Doctors, nurses, and firefighters all learn first aid. A first aid kit can have bandages, gloves, and scissors.
Noodle\n\nA noodle is a long, thin strip of food made from dough. Dough is a soft mixture of flour and water. Noodles are cooked in hot water until they become soft. Sometimes, after cooking, noodles are fried in a pan with vegetables or meat and stirred around. That is called stir-frying. People eat noodles all over the world. They can be long and straight or wavy and curly. Noodles are yummy and fun to eat.
Eurasian magpie\n\nThe Eurasian magpie is a black and white bird that lives in Europe, Asia, and northwest Africa. It is part of the crow family. This bird has a long tail and makes a loud chattering sound. Magpies like to collect shiny things and build big nests in trees.
Yukon River\n\nThe Yukon River is a very long river in the cold north part of North America. It starts in a place called British Columbia, then flows through the Yukon Territory, and finally ends in Alaska. The river pours into a big sea called the Bering Sea. It is the longest river in Alaska and the Yukon. A long time ago, many people used this river to travel when they were looking for gold.
Graphic design\n\nGraphic design is a way of putting words and pictures together to send a message. People who do this are called graphic designers. They make things like posters, books, and websites look nice and easy to read. They use colors, shapes, and letters to grab your attention. You see graphic design on TV, in magazines, and on signs every day.
Body of water\n\nA body of water is any place where water collects on the ground. It can be still, like a lake or a pond. It can also be moving, like a river or a stream. Oceans, seas, and creeks are all bodies of water. Some are very big, and some are very small. Fish and other animals live in bodies of water.
Sand\n\nSand is tiny pieces of broken rocks and minerals. It feels gritty when you touch it. Sand is made when big rocks break into smaller pieces over a long time. You can find sand on beaches and in deserts. Most sand is made of a hard white or yellow stone called silica. Wind and water can push sand into big piles called sand dunes. People use sand to make concrete for buildings. Children like to build sand castles at the beach.
Capuchin monkey\n\nA capuchin monkey is a small monkey that lives in Central and South America. It has dark brown or black fur, with a white face, throat, and chest. Its tail is as long as its body. Capuchin monkeys spend most of their time in trees, where they sleep and travel. They live in groups of 10 to 40 monkeys. These monkeys are very smart. They use rocks to crack open nuts and eat the food inside. They also rub crushed bugs on their backs to keep mosquitoes away. Capuchin monkeys eat fruits, nuts, seeds, bugs, and even small animals. Some capuchin monkeys help people who cannot move their arms or legs by doing tasks like opening bottles or washing faces. You might see them in movies or TV shows too.
Body language\n\nBody language is how people talk without using words. They use their face, hands, and body to show how they feel. For example, a smile can mean happy. Crossed arms can mean mad or not listening. Looking at someone's eyes can mean you like them. Yawning can mean you are tired or bored. People and animals use body language every day.
Parent\n\nA parent is a mom or a dad who takes care of a child. Parents love their children and keep them safe. They give food, clothes, and a home. Sometimes a parent is not the mom or dad who made the child, but someone who loves and cares for them like a mom or dad. When parents live apart, they decide who the child will live with.
Tissue\n\nA tissue is a part of your body made of many tiny cells that work together. Cells are the smallest building blocks of your body. Tissues help your body do jobs like moving, pumping blood, and covering your skin. Your heart is an organ made of different tissues. One tissue in the heart helps it squeeze and push blood. Another tissue covers the heart on the inside and outside. There are four main kinds of tissue in animals. Scientists look at tissues under a special glass to learn about them.
Baboon\n\nA baboon is a kind of monkey that is very big and smart. Baboons live on the ground in Africa and a place called the Arabian Peninsula. They stay together in big groups called troops. A troop can have just a few baboons or many, many baboons. Baboons eat plants and meat. They eat grass, roots, bugs, and small animals like lizards and birds. Sometimes they take food from people. Big animals like lions and leopards hunt baboons. To scare them away, baboons show their teeth, make loud noises, and chase them.
Dessert\n\nA dessert is a sweet food that you eat after lunch or dinner. Desserts can be many things, like ice cream, cookies, cakes, and pudding. Some desserts are baked in a hot oven, like cakes and cookies. Some are frozen, like ice cream and sherbet. Others are fried, like doughnuts. You can also have fruit for dessert. Desserts taste sweet and are a special treat at the end of a meal.
Xinjiang\n\nXinjiang is a big place in the northwest of China. It is very large but not many people live there. The people who live there are mostly called Uyghurs. Xinjiang has big mountains, dry land, and a big desert called the Taklamakan Desert. The biggest city is called Ürümqi, and it is very far from any ocean. Long ago, people used the Silk Road that went through Xinjiang to travel and trade.
Yen\n\nYen is the money people use in Japan. It comes in light coins and paper notes. The coins are worth 1, 5, 10, 50, 100, or 500 yen. The paper notes are worth 1000, 2000, 5000, or 10000 yen. Many people around the world trade yen for other money.
Urban planning\n\nUrban planning is how people decide what a city should look like. It is about where to put houses, roads, parks, and schools. Planners make sure there are places to play, walk, and drive. They help cities grow in a good way so people can live, work, and have fun.
Color\n\nColor is a way we see light. Some colors are red, yellow, and blue. You can mix these colors to make new ones. Red and yellow make orange. Blue and yellow make green. Red and blue make purple. TV screens use red, green, and blue light. Some people cannot see colors well, and they are called color-blind. Food can have color added to it, like in candy. Air has no color, so we call it clear.
Encryption\n\nEncryption is a way to hide messages so only the right person can read them. It uses a secret code, like a password. When you send a secret message, you change it into a code. That is called encryption. When the person gets it, they change it back. That is called decryption. A simple code is ROT13, where each letter is moved 13 spots in the alphabet. For example, 'A' becomes 'N'. Julius Caesar used a code where letters were moved 3 spots. Today, computers use very hard codes to keep things safe. Many websites use encryption to protect your information when you shop or play online.
Walnut\n\nA walnut is a nut that comes from a big tree. The tree can grow very tall, as high as a house. Walnut trees grow in many places around the world, like Europe, Asia, and America. The nut has a hard shell on the outside. Inside, you can eat the yummy part. People also use the wood from walnut trees to make strong furniture. The shell is very hard and can be used to make oil.
Painting\n\nPainting is when you use colors to make a picture. You can use watercolors, acrylics, or oils. Some people like to draw with pencils or chalk instead. Famous paintings are kept in big buildings called art galleries. One very famous painting is the "Mona Lisa" by Leonardo da Vinci. You can find art galleries in many cities. Painting is different from drawing because you put one layer of color on top of another. The picture is not clear until you finish all the layers. There are four steps in painting: get ready, plan, add layers, and fix small things.
Remora\n\nA remora is a small fish that lives near sharks. It has a flat disk on top of its head that works like a suction cup. The remora uses this disk to stick onto a shark's body. It eats leftover bits of food that the shark drops, and it also eats tiny bugs that live on the shark's skin. The remora gets a free ride and food from the shark, and the shark does not mind.
Knowledge\n\nKnowledge is everything you learn and remember. It is the things you know in your head. You get knowledge by learning from teachers, reading books, watching things, or trying new things. Some knowledge is easy to tell someone, like that water is wet. Other knowledge is hard to explain, like how to ride a bike. You just know how to do it. People learn knowledge in different ways. Some people learn by seeing and hearing. Other people learn by thinking hard. Knowledge helps you make good choices. For example, if you know it is very hot outside, you know to drink water. Schools and libraries keep lots of knowledge for everyone. You can also get knowledge from your family and friends. Knowledge grows when people share what they know.
Guinea\n\nGuinea is a country in Africa. It is next to six other countries: Guinea-Bissau, Senegal, Mali, Ivory Coast, Liberia, and Sierra Leone. People in Guinea speak French. The capital city is Conakry. Many people in Guinea are Muslim. Guinea used to be ruled by France, but now it is its own country.
Axe\n\nAn axe is a tool for cutting wood. It has a sharp metal head and a long handle. People use it to chop trees or split logs. A long time ago, soldiers used axes as weapons. Today, woodcutters and firemen use axes. An axe is a simple machine called a wedge.
Oral tradition\n\nOral tradition is when people tell stories with their voices instead of writing them down. Long ago, before many people could write, grown-ups would tell stories to children. They made the stories into poems and songs so it was easy to remember. This is how people shared history and fun tales from one family to the next.
Card game\n\nA card game is a game you play with a deck of cards. Each card has a picture on one side and a pattern on the other. You can only see your own cards, not the other players' cards. Some card games are Go Fish, Solitaire, and Poker. There are also special card games like Pokémon and Yu-Gi-Oh! where you collect cards and pretend to fight.
Parking\n\nParking is when you stop your car and leave it somewhere. You can park on the side of the street, in a parking lot, or in a garage. You must park only where it is allowed, or you might have to pay money. Some places have parking meters where you put coins to pay. If you park in a wrong spot, your car might get a ticket or a big clamp on the wheel. Parking lots have painted lines to show where to park. Some parking garages have many floors with ramps to drive up. Disabled people have special parking spots that are wider and closer to stores.
Stegosaurus\n\nStegosaurus is a dinosaur that ate plants. It lived a long, long time ago in a place that is now called North America. Stegosaurus is easy to know because it has two rows of big, flat plates on its back and long spikes on its tail. The plates and spikes helped keep it safe from meat-eating dinosaurs. Stegosaurus had a very small head and a tiny brain, but it had a big bunch of nerves near its tail that helped it move. It walked on four legs, and its front legs were much shorter than its back legs. Stegosaurus ate low plants because its head was close to the ground. It did not have front teeth, but it had a hard beak like a bird. Stegosaurus is the state dinosaur of Colorado, and you can see it in many movies and TV shows.
Gill\n\nGills are parts on some animals that help them breathe in water. Fish have gills on the sides of their heads. When a fish opens its mouth, water flows over the gills. The gills take oxygen out of the water and put it into the fish's blood. Some baby frogs and salamanders also have gills. Baby salamanders have gills that look like little leaves sticking out of their heads. Sharks have many gill slits on their necks. Some bugs that live in water have special hairs that work like gills to help them breathe underwater.
Typewriter\n\nA typewriter is a machine that puts letters on paper. It has keys you push to type words. You do not need electricity for many typewriters. They were used a lot before computers. People used them in offices and at home. If you make a mistake, it is hard to fix. Typewriters are still used in some places today.
Seychelles\n\nSeychelles is a country in Africa that is made up of many small islands in the ocean. The capital city is called Victoria. People there speak Creole, English, and French. Most of the people are from families who were once slaves. There are also some people from Europe, China, and India. Many people are Roman Catholics. The islands have special plants and animals that live only there, like the Coco de Mer palm tree and the Seychelles Black Parrot. Giant tortoises live on the islands too. The ocean around Seychelles has many colorful fish. People visit Seychelles to see the beaches and the animals.
Amateur radio\n\nAmateur radio is a hobby where people talk to each other using radios. People who do this are called ham radio operators. They can talk to people in other countries. They use their radios to help in emergencies when phones do not work. Some ham radio operators listen for calls for help and tell the police or coast guard. To use amateur radio, you need a license. You have to pass a test to get one. Ham radio operators talk in many ways: with their voice, with computers, or with Morse code. They can bounce signals off the sky, the moon, or a satellite. Some even talk to astronauts on the space station. There are fun games and contests. Operators try to talk to many people and send each other postcards called QSL cards. Some hide a radio and others try to find it, like a treasure hunt. In India, over 15,000 people have licenses for amateur radio.
Hudson Bay\n\nHudson Bay is a very big body of water in Canada. It is one of the biggest seas in the world. The water is cold and salty. Many fish and animals live in and near the bay. The bay is named after a man named Henry Hudson, who found it a long time ago.
Greed\n\nGreed is when someone wants too many things, like toys or money, even when they already have enough. It is a feeling that makes you always want more and more. Some people say greed is not good because it can make you forget to share with others.
Moai\n\nMoai are very big stone statues on Easter Island. They are made from one big rock, and some have an extra rock on top of the head. Most moai are between 2.5 and 10 meters tall and weigh as much as 14 cars. There are about 1000 moai around the coast of the island. People made them almost 1000 years ago to remember their ancestors and bring good luck. It is still a mystery how they moved the heavy statues. Today, some moai have been fixed and stand up again.
Flea\n\nA flea is a very tiny insect that lives on animals like dogs, cats, and sometimes people. Fleas drink blood from the animal they bite. They live outside in sand or tall grass and jump onto animals that walk by. Flea bites make red bumps that itch a lot. There are different kinds of fleas, like dog fleas and cat fleas.
Wood carving\n\nWood carving is when people use a knife or a chisel to cut wood and make things. They can make wooden figures or pretty shapes on wood. Wood carving is very old, but wood can break or rot, so we do not have many old carvings. People in China, Japan, Africa, and other places make beautiful wood carvings. Wood is light, so it is good for masks and things you carry. Some carvings are made in many pieces and then put together.
Hairstyle\n\nA hairstyle is the way you cut and fix your hair. People cut their hair to look nice or to be neat. Some people have long hair, and some have short hair. Girls often have longer hair than boys. Hairstyles can be curly, straight, braided, or in a ponytail. People choose a hairstyle to look pretty or cool. Sometimes friends and family help you fix your hair.
Pune\n\nPune is a big city in India. It is in the state of Maharashtra. Many people live there. Pune is known for schools and colleges. People call it the "Oxford of the East" because so many students go there to learn. A long time ago, a famous king named Shivaji Maharaj lived there. The city has old palaces and museums you can visit. Two rivers flow through Pune. The weather is nice, so many people like to live there. Every year, there is a big party called the Ganesh Festival. People eat a yummy snack called vada pav. Pune also has many companies that make things like glass and sugar.
Bay of Bengal\n\nThe Bay of Bengal is a big part of the ocean that looks like a triangle. It is next to India and Bangladesh. Many countries around it work together to trade things.
Folklore\n\nFolklore is the stories, songs, and dances that people share with each other. It includes tales like Little Red Riding Hood. These stories are told by word of mouth, not written down. Folklore also has jokes, sayings, and old beliefs. It is part of what makes a group of people special.
Human history\n\nHuman history is the story of all people who ever lived. It starts a very long time ago, before anyone wrote things down. The first people lived in Africa. They used stones as tools to cut and smash things. They also learned how to make fire to keep warm and cook food. People lived in small groups and moved from place to place to find food. They hunted animals and picked berries and nuts to eat. Later, people learned to grow plants and keep animals like cows and sheep. Then they stayed in one place and built villages. The weather changed over time. Sometimes it was very cold, and ice covered big parts of the world. People had to find new places to live. Over many years, people spread to all parts of the world.
Meteor shower\n\nA meteor shower is when many tiny rocks from space fall into the sky at night and make bright streaks of light. These tiny rocks are called meteors. Most are smaller than a grain of sand, so they burn up high in the sky and never hit the ground. The rocks come from comets, which are like dirty snowballs that go around the Sun. When a comet gets close to the Sun, some of its ice melts and leaves behind a trail of dust and rocks. Earth sometimes passes through this trail, and then we see a meteor shower. One of the best meteor showers is the Perseids, which happens every year in August. You can see many meteors every hour if you look up at a dark sky.
Santiago\n\nSantiago is a big city in South America. It is the capital of Chile, which means it is the most important city in that country. Many people live there, more than in any other city in Chile. Santiago sits in a valley with tall mountains all around it. Sometimes the air in the city gets dirty because the mountains trap the smoke and dust.
Pea\n\nA pea is a small, round, green seed that grows inside a pod. People eat peas as a vegetable. Peas grow best when the weather is cool, not too hot. You can eat them fresh, boiled, or in soup. Some people eat them with butter or salt. Peas are also used in salads and stir-fried dishes. The pod can burst open to spread the seeds.
Stuffed toy\n\nA stuffed toy is a soft toy made from cloth. It is filled with things like cotton, beans, or plastic beads. Stuffed toys can look like animals or cartoon characters. People give them as gifts for birthdays or holidays.
Fastener\n\nA fastener is something that holds two or more things together. It can be a screw, a nail, or a bolt. Fasteners are usually made of strong metal. They help keep things like toys, chairs, and walls from falling apart.
Prairie\n\nA prairie is a big open place with lots of grass and some flowers. It is like a grassy field that goes on for a long way. Prairies are in North America. Some prairies have tall grass that grows as high as a grown-up. Other prairies have short grass that only reaches your knees. Many animals live on a prairie, like bison (also called buffalo) and pronghorn antelope. Birds like the bobolink and meadowlark live there too. The soil in a prairie is very good for growing food, so people have turned many prairies into farms. Fires used to sweep across the prairie and stop trees from growing. Now people stop the fires, so trees and bushes are starting to grow where the grass used to be.
Vegetarianism\n\nVegetarianism is when people do not eat meat or fish. People who do this are called vegetarians. They eat foods like vegetables, fruit, nuts, beans, and grains. Some vegetarians also drink milk and eat eggs. There are many reasons why people choose to be vegetarians. Some think it is wrong to hurt animals. Others think eating meat is bad for their health. Some people do it because of their religion. Many Hindus are vegetarians. Vegetarians often eat healthy food and may live longer without getting sick. But they need to take special vitamins to stay healthy.
Solomon\n\nSolomon was a king a long time ago. He was the son of King David. His name means 'peace.' Solomon was very wise and very rich. He built a big temple for God. He wrote some books in the Bible. But Solomon had many wives, and they worshipped other gods. After he died, his kingdom split into two parts.
Shopping\n\nShopping is when people go to stores to buy things they want or need. People who shop are called shoppers. Some people shop for food, clothes, or toys. Others just look around for fun. Shopping can make you feel happy because finding something special feels good. It can also help you feel less worried when you go with a friend or family member. Walking around a store and looking at things keeps your body moving and your brain thinking. Some people shop online on a computer or phone. Many people like shopping as a fun thing to do.
Poland\n\nPoland is a country in Europe. It is next to Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Ukraine, Belarus, Lithuania, and the Baltic Sea. Many people live in Poland, and the biggest city is Warsaw. Poland has a long history. Long ago, Poland was a very big and strong country. Then, for a time, Poland was not its own country because other countries took it over. But Poland became its own country again after World War I. During World War II, Germany and the Soviet Union attacked Poland, and many people died. After the war, Poland was ruled by the Soviet Union for many years. In 1989, Poland changed and became a free country again. Today, Poland is part of the European Union and NATO. People in Poland speak Polish.
Heavy metal music\n\nHeavy metal music is a loud, strong kind of rock music. Bands that play heavy metal usually have one or two guitars, a bass guitar, and drums. The songs are loud and powerful, with strong beats that repeat. Some bands dress in jeans, leather jackets, and boots, and have long hair. Heavy metal started in the late 1960s. Black Sabbath is one of the first heavy metal bands. In the 1980s, there were different kinds of heavy metal, like hair metal and thrash metal. In the 1990s, new types like nu metal became popular. Heavy metal music is played all over the world.
Nationalism\n\nNationalism is when people love their own country very much and want it to be strong and free. People who believe in nationalism think each group of people should have their own country to live in. Long ago, nationalism helped countries in Africa and other places become free from other countries that ruled them. Nationalism can be about helping regular people, like farmers and workers, and making sure everyone is treated fairly. Some people think nationalism is good, and some people think it is better for countries to work together.
Measurement\n\nMeasurement is how we find out how big, how long, or how much something is. We use numbers to tell the size or amount. For example, we can measure how tall you are with a ruler. We can measure how much water is in a cup. We use special words like inches or cups to say the number. Measuring helps us compare things, like which box is bigger or which bottle holds more juice.
Roman Empire\n\nThe Roman Empire was a very big place that ruled many lands around the Mediterranean Sea. It started a long time ago, more than 2000 years ago. The Romans had a strong army and built many roads, bridges, and big buildings. They spoke Latin. The empire was ruled by a leader called an emperor. People in Rome liked to watch chariot races and fights between gladiators. The Roman Empire lasted for many years, but the western part fell about 1500 years ago. The eastern part, called the Byzantine Empire, lasted much longer.
Tuba\n\nA tuba is the biggest musical instrument in a band or orchestra. It is made of shiny metal and has long tubes that curl around. The tuba makes a very low, deep sound like a big rumble. You have to blow a lot of air into it to make a sound. It can play very loud or very soft. The tuba plays the lowest notes in the music. You can see a tuba in an orchestra, a marching band, or a jazz group.
Video documentary\n\nA video documentary is a movie or TV show that tells you true facts about real things. It can show you animals, places far away, or things that happened a long time ago. You can watch a documentary to learn something new.
Grouse\n\nA grouse is a bird that lives on the ground. It looks a bit like a chicken. Its feathers are brown, gray, and red, which help it hide in the woods. Even its legs are covered with feathers. Grouse are part of a group of birds that people sometimes hunt for food.
Ageing\n\nAgeing is the way people and animals change as they get older. When you are born, your body grows very fast. As you get older, your body grows slower. After you are all grown up, your body starts to change in other ways. Your cells, which are tiny parts of your body, can get hurt over time. This makes you feel different as you get very old. Some animals, like tiny one-celled creatures, do not get old the same way. They just split into two new ones. People get old because their bodies collect little damages that cannot be fixed. That is why old people look and feel different from young children.
Kali\n\nKali is a goddess in Hinduism. She is the goddess of time, creation, and destruction. People often show her as dark blue or black with many arms. She has a long red tongue and wears a necklace of heads. She stands on the god Shiva. Kali fights bad demons and keeps the world safe. Some stories say she came from the goddess Parvati's anger. She is very strong and helps people who love her.
Degree (angle)\n\nA degree is a way to measure how much something turns. Think of a circle, like a pizza. A full turn all the way around is 360 degrees. A half turn is 180 degrees. A quarter turn is 90 degrees. People use degrees to talk about angles in shapes and to tell direction on a compass.
Asteroid belt\n\nThe asteroid belt is a ring of rocks and dust that goes around the Sun. It sits between the planets Mars and Jupiter. The biggest rock in the belt is called Ceres, and it is a dwarf planet. Most of the rocks are small, but some are big. The rocks in the belt never made a planet because Jupiter's strong pull kept them from sticking together. The inner planets (Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars) are closer to the Sun than the belt. The outer planets (Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune) are farther away.
Cheese\n\nCheese is a food made from milk. Milk can come from cows, goats, or other animals. There are many kinds of cheese, like cheddar and Swiss. Cheese can be yellow, white, or orange. Some cheese is soft, and some is hard. People have been making cheese for a very long time, even before people learned to write. You can eat cheese on bread, in sandwiches, or all by itself.
K2\n\nK2 is a very tall mountain. It is the second-highest mountain in the world. K2 is on the border between Pakistan and China. It is very hard to climb. Many people have tried to climb it, and some have died. The first people to reach the top were from Italy in 1954. K2 is also called the Savage Mountain because it is so dangerous.
Darts\n\nDarts is a game where you throw small pointy things called darts at a round target on the wall. The round target is called a dartboard. People play darts in pubs, especially in England. The dartboard has 20 sections with numbers from 1 to 20. There is also a red spot in the middle that gives you 50 points. The highest score with three darts is 180. The numbers on the board are not in order.
Substance\n\nA substance is what something is made of. You can see it, touch it, or measure it. Iron, water, and air are all substances. Some substances are pure, like iron. Others are mixed, like water and air. Everything around you is made of some kind of substance.
Llama\n\nA llama is a furry animal from South America. It lives in the mountains of Peru and Ecuador. Llamas have long necks and soft wool. People use llamas to carry heavy things on their backs. They also use llama wool to make warm clothes. Llamas like to live in groups and sometimes spit when they are upset. A baby llama is called a cria. The llama is a cousin of the camel and the alpaca.
Social movement\n\nA social movement is when many people work together to change something in the world. They might want to make new rules or stop bad things from happening. Some groups try to change laws about important things. Other groups help workers get fair pay and safe jobs.
Papua New Guinea\n\nPapua New Guinea is a country on an island in the Pacific Ocean. It is on the east side of a big island called New Guinea, and it also has some smaller islands nearby. The capital city is Port Moresby. Many different groups of people live there, and they speak more languages than any other country in the world. Long ago, people came to this island and started farming their own food. They grew sweet potatoes, which became a very popular food. Papua New Guinea has many provinces, and each one has its own local government.
New Orleans\n\nNew Orleans is a big city in the state of Louisiana, in the United States. It sits near the mouth of the Mississippi River, where the river meets the ocean. The city is very low and flat, and some parts are below the level of the sea. A long time ago, French people started the city. Later, the United States bought it. Many ships come to New Orleans to carry grain and oil to other places. In 2005, a big storm called Hurricane Katrina flooded most of the city. Many people had to leave their homes. Some came back, but many did not. New Orleans is famous for its fun party called Mardi Gras, and for yummy food like gumbo and jambalaya.
Speed of sound\n\nThe speed of sound is how fast sound moves. In air that is not too hot or too cold, sound goes about as fast as a race car. Sound moves even faster through water, and fastest through hard things like metal. Sound cannot move where there is no air, like in outer space. When something goes faster than sound, we call it supersonic.
Pelvis\n\nThe pelvis is the part of your body between your belly and your legs. It is made of big bones that help you sit, stand, and walk. Your legs are attached to your pelvis. The pelvis also keeps your tummy and other inside parts safe. Boys and girls have different pelvises. A girl's pelvis is wider so a baby can come out when she grows up.
Blizzard\n\nA blizzard is a big snowstorm with very strong winds and cold temperatures. It starts when cold air and warm air meet. During a blizzard, so much snow blows around that you cannot see far. A whiteout is a very dangerous blizzard where the sky and ground look the same, and people can get lost. Blizzards can happen in many places where snow falls, like in the northern parts of the United States and Canada. The snow can get very deep, sometimes as high as two or three basketball hoops. Blizzards can last for many hours, and people must stay inside to stay safe.
Number\n\nA number is a way to count things, like how many toys you have. You can also use numbers to measure how tall you are. People use numbers every day. The most common way to write numbers uses ten symbols: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. This is called the base ten system. We use it because we have ten fingers. Numbers can be big or small. Some numbers are less than zero, like when it is very cold outside. Those are called negative numbers. Numbers that you count with, like 1, 2, 3, are called natural numbers. Numbers that can be written as a fraction, like 1/2, are called rational numbers. Some numbers, like pi, cannot be written as a fraction and go on forever without repeating. Those are called irrational numbers. Numbers help us learn about the world and build things.
Loom\n\nA loom is a machine that makes cloth. It takes thread and weaves it together to make fabric. Some looms are small and you hold them in your hands. Other looms are big and stand on the floor. A long time ago, a man named Edmund Cartwright made a loom that worked by itself. This helped people make cloth much faster.
Gulf of Aden\n\nThe Gulf of Aden is a big body of salt water in the Indian Ocean. It sits between Yemen on one side and Somalia on the other. Boats travel through the Gulf of Aden to go from the Red Sea to the Indian Ocean. The water is warm and blue, and many fish live there.
Pleasure\n\nPleasure is a good feeling. It is the opposite of pain. People feel pleasure when they do something fun or nice. Playing with a toy, eating a yummy snack, or getting a hug can give pleasure. Pleasure is important for feeling happy and healthy. Different people feel pleasure from different things.
Hawaii\n\nHawaii is a state in the United States. It is made only of islands. The biggest island is also called Hawaii. The capital city is Honolulu. Hawaii is called the "Aloha State." Aloha is a word that means hello, goodbye, and love. The first people in Hawaii came from far away on boats. They were called Polynesians. Hawaii has eight main islands. They are the tops of big underwater mountains called volcanoes. Many people visit Hawaii every year. They go to see beaches, volcanoes, and the Pearl Harbor memorial. Hawaii grows sugar, pineapple, nuts, and coffee. The state bird is the Hawaiian goose. The state flower is the yellow hibiscus.
Purple\n\nPurple is a color. It is made by mixing red and blue together. You can see purple in flowers, like violets and lavender. Some grapes are purple. The sky can look purple at sunset. Purple is a pretty color that many people like.
Subsidy\n\nA subsidy is money that a government gives to a business. This helps the business keep the price of things low for people. For example, the government might give money to a farm so that food costs less at the store.
Horsetail\n\nHorsetail is a plant that looks like a horse's tail. It has a green stem with many small leaves that wrap around it like a tube. The stem is hollow and has ridges. Horsetail grows in many places around the world, except in Australia and Antarctica. It does not make flowers or seeds. Instead, it makes tiny spores that grow into new plants. Some horsetails are small, but others can be as tall as a house. Long ago, horsetails were much bigger and covered the ground in forests.
Fundamental force\n\nA fundamental force is a way that things push or pull on each other. There are four of them. Gravity pulls things down to the ground. Electromagnetism makes magnets stick and lights turn on. The strong force holds the middle of tiny things together. The weak force helps tiny things change into other things. We feel gravity and electromagnetism every day.
Reservoir\n\nA reservoir is a big lake that holds water. Some reservoirs are made by people. People build them to keep water for drinking or for making electricity. Other reservoirs are made by nature, like a lake that forms on its own. The water in a reservoir can be very deep and still.
Renaissance music\n\nRenaissance music is music that people in Europe made a long time ago, from about 1400 to 1600. The word 'Renaissance' means 'rebirth'. Before this time, music was very hard and had many rules. Renaissance music was smoother and gentler. People sang songs in church and also songs about love. Music was written on five lines, like we do today. Some famous music makers were Guillaume Dufay, Josquin des Prez, and Giovanni da Palestrina. Their music is still played today.
Camera\n\nA camera is a box that takes pictures. It has a hole on one side called the aperture, and a lens that helps see the picture. Inside, there is film or a special part that saves the picture. When you press the button, a door called the shutter opens for a little bit, and light comes in to make the picture. Some cameras take one picture at a time, and some take many pictures fast to make movies. Many phones have a camera inside.
South Korea\n\nSouth Korea is a country in East Asia. It is on the southern part of a piece of land called the Korean peninsula. The capital city is Seoul, and about half of the people in South Korea live in or near Seoul. South Korea is surrounded by water on three sides. It has many mountains and hills. The biggest island is Jeju Island. The highest mountain is Hallasan on Jeju. South Korea is famous for making cars like Hyundai and Kia, and for making phones and TVs from Samsung and LG. Many people around the world like South Korean music, like BTS and BLACKPINK, and Korean shows. The language is Korean, and the alphabet is called Hangul. A popular food is kimchi, which is eaten with almost every meal. People in South Korea vote for their leaders.
Pomegranate\n\nA pomegranate is a fruit that grows on a small tree. It has a hard, leathery skin that is red or yellow. Inside, there are many tiny seeds with a sweet, juicy covering. You can eat the seeds and spit out the hard part. The pomegranate tree has bright red or yellow flowers. People have grown pomegranates for a very long time, since ancient days. They grow in warm places like the Mediterranean, India, and California. The name means "apple with seeds" in an old language.
Angling\n\nAngling is a way to catch fish. You use a hook on a long string called a fishing line. The line is on a stick called a fishing rod. The rod has a wheel that holds the line. You put food or a shiny thing on the hook to make fish come. People do angling for fun. Some people let the fish go after they catch it.
Wing\n\nA wing is a part of an animal or an airplane that helps it fly. Birds have wings made of feathers. Bats have wings made of skin stretched between their arm and finger bones. Insects also have wings. Some animals with wings cannot fly. By moving their wings up and down, animals can push against the air and lift off the ground.
Rifle\n\nA rifle is a long gun that you hold against your shoulder. Inside the barrel there are twisty grooves that make the bullet spin as it flies. Rifles can shoot very far and hit things far away. Some rifles are for hunting animals. Some are for soldiers. Some are for target practice. There are different kinds of rifles. A bolt-action rifle has a handle you move to put a bullet in. A semi-automatic rifle shoots one bullet each time you pull the trigger. A fully automatic rifle shoots many bullets as long as you hold the trigger.
Tanzania\n\nTanzania is a country in East Africa. People there speak Kiswahili and English. It is next to Africa's biggest lake, Lake Victoria. Many animals like lions and cheetahs live in the Serengeti in Tanzania. The country has many different groups of people and many languages. The main religions are Christianity and Islam. The president is Samia Suluhu Hassan. Tanzania became its own country in 1961 and 1964.
Fork\n\nA fork is a tool you use to eat food. It has a long handle and pointed parts at the end called tines. Most forks have three or four tines. The tines help you pick up food and lift it to your mouth. Forks are usually made of metal, but some are made of plastic or wood. Long ago, people made forks from bone. Not everyone uses a fork. Some people use chopsticks or their hands to eat.
Wealth\n\nWealth means having a lot of things that are worth money. For a person, wealth can be the money they have saved, the house they live in, or the land they own. For a whole country, wealth is all the things the country has, like roads, buildings, and natural resources. Long ago, the word wealth meant being happy and healthy. Today, people use wealth to talk about being rich.
Ancient Olympic Games\n\nThe Ancient Olympic Games were races and contests that happened a long time ago in a place called Greece. People ran, jumped, and threw things to see who was the fastest and strongest. The games were held to honor a god named Zeus, who was the god of lightning. Winners got a crown made of olive leaves and a ribbon. Only men and boys could play in the games. Women were not allowed to watch or play, except for one woman who dressed up like a man to see her son win. The games stopped a very long time ago, but now we have new Olympic Games every few years.
Carnivore\n\nA carnivore is an animal that eats only meat. Some carnivores hunt and catch other animals to eat. Others eat animals that are already dead. Some carnivores eat only bugs, and some eat only fish. Most animals in the cat and dog family are carnivores, but a few like pandas do not eat meat.
Newton's laws of motion\n\nNewton's laws of motion are three rules about how things move. They were thought of by a man named Isaac Newton a long time ago. The first law says that a thing that is still will stay still unless something pushes it. A thing that is moving will keep moving in a straight line unless something stops it or changes its direction. The second law says that a heavy thing needs a bigger push to move fast, and a light thing needs only a small push. The third law says that when you push something, it pushes you back just as hard. For example, when you kick a ball, your foot feels a push from the ball. When a fish swims, it pushes water backward, and the water pushes the fish forward. When a car moves, its wheels push the road backward, and the road pushes the wheels forward.
Situation comedy\n\nA situation comedy is a funny show on TV. It is also called a sitcom. The same people are in the same places every time, like a house or a school. The show makes you laugh.
Citizenship\n\nCitizenship is about being part of a country. When you are a citizen of a country, that country protects you and you follow its rules. Most people are citizens of the country where they are born. Sometimes people can become citizens of a new country if they ask and the country says yes. Some countries let you be a citizen of two countries at the same time. In Canada, if you are born there, you are a citizen even if your parents are not from Canada.
Field hockey\n\nField hockey is a sport played by two teams. Each team has 11 players. They play on grass or fake grass with a small hard ball. Players use a stick that looks like the letter J to hit the ball. The stick is made of wood and other materials. There is a goal at each end of the field. To score, the ball must be hit from inside a big half-circle near the goal. The game has four parts called quarters. Each quarter is 15 minutes long. There is a long break in the middle and short breaks after the first and third quarters. Some players guard the goal, and others try to score.
Nature\n\nNature is everything that is not made by people. It includes the sky, the ground, trees, animals, water, and the weather. Scientists study how nature works. People are part of nature too. We live in nature every day. But sometimes people change nature by cutting trees or building cities. That can make nature dirty or hurt animals. Many people want to keep nature clean and safe for everyone.
Monopoly\n\nA monopoly is when only one company sells a certain thing. You can only buy that thing from them. There are no other companies to buy it from. This can make the price very high. Sometimes the government lets a monopoly happen, like for water or electricity. But the government also makes rules so the company does not charge too much.
Uzbekistan\n\nUzbekistan is a country in the middle of Asia. It is far away from any ocean. The biggest city is Tashkent. Many people live there, about 37 million. The people speak a language called Uzbek. The country is next to Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan. Most people in Uzbekistan follow a religion called Islam. The country has a long history, with people living there a very long time ago.
Summer Olympic Games\n\nThe Summer Olympic Games are a big sports party that happens every four years. Many countries send their best athletes to run, swim, jump, and play games. The games are held in a different city each time. The first modern Summer Olympics were in Athens in 1896. The three best athletes in each sport get medals: gold, silver, and bronze. People all over the world watch the Olympics on TV and cheer for their favorite teams.
Diet (nutrition)\n\nA diet is all the food that a person eats every day. Different people and cultures choose different foods to eat. Long ago, people did a lot of hard work with their bodies. Now many people sit at desks or use machines, so they do not move as much. If they eat the same amount of food but move less, their bodies store extra food as fat. This can make them gain weight. Some people change what they eat to stay healthy or to lose weight. A person who helps others with their food choices is called a dietitian. Some people cannot eat certain foods because those foods make them sick. That is called a food allergy. Eating the right amount of the right foods helps people feel good and stay strong.
Barley\n\nBarley is a plant that looks like tall grass. It grows seeds that people and animals can eat. People use barley to make flour for bread and also to make a drink called beer. Barley is one of the oldest foods that people have grown.
Boiling\n\nBoiling is when a liquid gets so hot that it turns into a gas. This happens all through the liquid, not just on top. You can see bubbles form inside the liquid and rise up. When the bubbles pop at the top, the gas goes into the air. Water boils when it gets very hot, like in a pot on the stove. The temperature at which a liquid boils can change. If you go up a mountain where the air is thinner, water boils at a lower temperature. A pressure cooker makes the pressure higher, so water boils at a higher temperature and cooks food faster. Boiling is used to cook food, clean things, and make chemicals.
Toilet\n\nA toilet is a thing people use to get rid of body waste. Most toilets have a seat to sit on and use water to flush the waste away through pipes. Some toilets do not use water and are called dry toilets. A room with a toilet can be called a bathroom or restroom. Many homes have a toilet inside. Some toilets are outside in a small building called an outhouse. Public toilets are in parks or at big events like concerts. Some public toilets cost money to use. Toilets help keep places clean and safe.
Godavari River\n\nThe Godavari River is a very long river in India. It is the second longest river in the country. The river starts in a place called Trimbakeshwar and flows all the way to the sea. Many people think the river is special and holy. They go to the river to wash and pray. Every twelve years, there is a big fair called Pushkaram next to the river. The river helps plants and animals grow. It also gives water to many people.
Elephant\n\nAn elephant is the biggest land animal that lives on Earth. It has a very long nose called a trunk. The trunk is soft and can grab food, pick up things, and make loud sounds. Elephants also have big floppy ears that help them stay cool. Their skin is thick and tough. Baby elephants are called calves. A baby elephant drinks milk from its mother for two years. Elephants live in families and talk to each other with low sounds that people cannot hear. They eat grass, leaves, and branches. Some elephants have long teeth called tusks. People should not hurt elephants because there are not many left in the wild.
High jump\n\nThe high jump is a game where people try to jump over a long stick. The stick sits on two stands, and it is very high up. The person runs fast and jumps up to go over the stick without knocking it down. Each person gets three tries at each height. The high jump started in England a long time ago. Boys and girls both do high jumps in the big Olympic games. Some people jump backward over the stick, and that is called the Fosbury flop. Others jump like scissors, and that is called the scissor kick.
Ocean sunfish\n\nThe ocean sunfish is a very big fish that lives in warm oceans. It is the heaviest fish with bones in the world. Its body is round and flat, like a big pancake. It does not have a tail like most fish. Instead, it flaps its long top and bottom fins to swim. Sometimes it floats on its side at the top of the water to get warm from the sun. It eats jellyfish, small fish, and other sea animals. Its skin can be silver or white, and it can change color when it is scared.
San Salvador\n\nSan Salvador is the biggest city and the capital of a country called El Salvador. Many important buildings are there, like where the president lives and where leaders make laws. The city is up high in the mountains and has volcanoes all around. Sometimes the ground shakes because of earthquakes. Many people live in San Salvador, and big games and shows happen there.
Space Shuttle\n\nA Space Shuttle is a big machine that NASA used to fly people and things into space. It looked like a big airplane with wings and a tail. The Space Shuttle could be used many times, unlike other spacecraft that could only be used once. It had three parts: the orbiter (the part that looked like a plane), a big orange fuel tank, and two long white rocket boosters on the sides. The orbiter carried astronauts and cargo like satellites or parts of a space station. When the Shuttle came back to Earth, it glided like a plane and landed on a runway. The Space Shuttle helped build the International Space Station and fix the Hubble telescope. Now the Space Shuttles are in museums where people can see them.
Concussion\n\nA concussion is a hurt inside your head that happens when you get hit on the head. It can make your brain get bumped. You might get a headache or feel dizzy. Some people feel very tired or have trouble seeing. You might feel confused or even fall asleep for a little while. If you hit your head hard, a doctor should check you. Wearing a helmet when you ride a bike or play sports can help keep your head safe.
Forgiveness\n\nForgiveness is when you decide not to be mad at someone who did something wrong. You stop being angry and stop wanting to get back at them. It is a choice you make inside your heart. When you forgive, you let go of bad feelings. You can forgive someone even if they do not say sorry. Many people around the world believe forgiveness is important. It helps you feel happy and peaceful inside.
Suriname\n\nSuriname is a country in South America. It is between Guyana and French Guiana. The capital city is Paramaribo, where almost half of the people live. About half a million people live in Suriname. The country used to be part of the Netherlands and became its own country in 1975. Many people there speak Dutch. The country has big forests and many rivers. People in Suriname work on farms, grow sugar, and find gold and oil in the ground. Children go to school until they are twelve years old.
Comoros\n\nComoros is a small country made of islands in the Indian Ocean. It is between Madagascar and Africa. The islands are from volcanoes. The biggest island is Grande Comore. The capital city is Moroni. The weather is warm most of the year. It rains a lot from December to April. The country is one of the poorest in the world. Many people grow food and fish for a living. Comoros grows a lot of vanilla and a flower called ylang-ylang.
Beech\n\nA beech is a big tree that grows in Europe, Asia, and North America. It has smooth, light gray bark. In spring, the tree grows small flowers and new leaves. The fruit of the beech is a small nut called a beechnut. You can eat the nuts, but they taste a little bitter. Beech trees make a lot of shade, so not many plants grow under them. People use beech wood to make furniture, tools, and kitchen things. The wood is white or light red and burns well for fire.
Joint\n\nA joint is the place where two or more bones meet. Joints help your body move, like when you bend your elbow or knee. Between the bones there is a soft cushion called cartilage that helps the bones slide smoothly. Some joints have a little bag of slippery fluid that works like a cushion between bones and muscles. This fluid helps the joint move without rubbing too much.
Great Barrier Reef\n\nThe Great Barrier Reef is the biggest coral reef in the world. It is near Australia in the ocean. It is made of many small animals called corals. The reef is so big that people can see it from space. Many fish, turtles, whales, and birds live there. There are over 1,500 kinds of fish. The reef is very old, but it is in danger. When the water gets too warm, the corals lose their color and can die. People are trying to keep the reef safe.
National anthem\n\nA national anthem is a special song for a country. People sing it to show they love their country. Most countries have a national anthem. Some countries also have a special song for their king or queen.
Cheetah\n\nA cheetah is a big cat that lives in Africa and a few in Iran. It is the fastest animal on land and can run very fast, faster than a car. Cheetahs have long thin legs and a long spotted tail to help them run. They hunt in the early morning or late evening. They eat animals like gazelles and hares. When a cheetah hunts, it sneaks close and then runs very fast to catch its food. Cheetahs cannot fight lions or hyenas, so they eat quickly. A mother cheetah has about 3 to 5 babies called cubs. The cubs stay with their mom for two years to learn how to hunt. Cheetahs do not attack people.
Artist\n\nAn artist is a person who makes art. Art can be a drawing, a painting, a song, a dance, or a story. Some artists use paint and brushes to make pictures. Other artists sing or play music. Some artists act in plays or movies. An artist uses their hands and ideas to make something beautiful. You can be an artist too when you draw or make something.
Adhesive\n\nAn adhesive is something that sticks two things together. Glue is an adhesive. Sticky tape is an adhesive. Some adhesives come from plants or animals. Others are made by people. You can use glue to stick paper. Sticky notes have a special glue that lets you take them off again. Some glues are very strong and hold big things together, like furniture.
Baseball\n\nBaseball is a game played by two teams on a big field. One team throws a small round ball, and the other team tries to hit it with a bat. If you hit the ball, you run to touch four safe spots called bases. You get a point, called a run, when you run all the way around the bases and back to where you started. The other team tries to catch the ball or tag you with it to get you out. After three outs, the teams switch places. The team with the most runs wins. Baseball started in the United States a long time ago. Many people in the United States and Japan love to play and watch baseball.
Tokyo\n\nTokyo is the biggest city in Japan and the capital. It is on an island called Honshu. Many people live and work there. Tokyo has tall buildings, trains, and busy streets. The emperor of Japan lives in a big palace in Tokyo, but people cannot go inside. Long ago, Tokyo was called Edo and was a small fishing village. It grew into a big city. Tokyo was hurt by a big earthquake in 1923 and by bombs in a war. After the war, people built it again. Now Tokyo has many fun places to see, like Tokyo Tower and Tokyo Skytree. There are also old temples and parks. Many trains and subways help people move around the city.
Ore\n\nAn ore is a special kind of rock that has a metal inside it. People dig up ores from the ground in mines. Sometimes you can find ores on the ground outside. To get the metal out, the ore is heated in a very hot oven. For example, iron ore is heated in a big furnace to make iron.
Igloo\n\nAn igloo is a little house made of snow blocks. People build it by stacking snow bricks on top of each other in a round shape like half a ball. The igloo keeps people warm and dry inside. Hunters used igloos when they were far from home in the winter. You can find igloos in very cold places like Canada and Greenland. The Inuit people are very good at building igloos. Sometimes they build big igloos where many people can sit together or even dance.
Sweet potato\n\nA sweet potato is a plant that grows a root you can eat. The root is sweet and soft when cooked. It has a lot of fiber and something called beta-carotene, which is good for your body. People eat sweet potatoes all over the world. They can be orange, purple, or red on the inside. You can bake them, boil them, or make them into fries. Sweet potatoes are not the same as regular potatoes, but they look a little alike.
Sushi\n\nSushi is a food that comes from Japan. It is made with special rice that has vinegar, salt, and sugar mixed in. Sushi often has raw or cooked fish on top or inside. Sometimes it has vegetables or meat instead of fish. Some sushi is wrapped in a thin sheet of seaweed called nori. People eat sushi with soy sauce and wasabi. You can eat sushi with your hands or with chopsticks. There are many kinds of sushi. One kind has fish on top of a small ball of rice. Another kind has rice and fish rolled up inside seaweed. In Japan, some sushi shops have plates of sushi on a moving belt. People pick the plates they want as they go by. Sushi is now popular in many countries around the world.
Saw\n\nA saw is a tool that cuts things. Some saws are hand tools that you push or pull with your arm. Other saws use electricity or a motor to move. A chainsaw is a powerful saw used to cut down trees. A circular saw has a round blade that spins very fast. A jig saw moves its blade up and down to make curved cuts. Saws have sharp teeth, so they can be dangerous. You have to be careful not to touch the sharp edges. Using a saw is usually noisy.
Freighter\n\nA freighter is a big boat that carries things from one place to another. It moves boxes, food, toys, and other stuff across the ocean. Many freighters travel on the sea every day. They have big cranes to pick up and put down the heavy boxes. Some freighters are very small, and some are huge.
Odor\n\nAn odor is a smell that you can pick up with your nose. Some smells are nice, like flowers or cookies baking. Other smells are not nice, like garbage or stinky socks. Your nose can tell the difference between many different smells. Animals also use smells to talk to each other. For example, a mother bee can send out a smell to tell other bees where to go. Some smells are so strong that you can smell them from far away.
Rigel\n\nRigel is a very big, hot star in the sky. It is part of a group of stars called Orion. Rigel is much bigger and brighter than our Sun. It looks like a small blue-white dot on clear nights. Rigel is actually four stars that stay close together. It will use up its fuel and one day explode.
Finger\n\nA finger is a part of your hand. You have five fingers on each hand. The first one is called the thumb. Then comes the index finger, the middle finger, the ring finger, and the little finger. Some people call the little finger a pinky. Fingers help you pick up toys, hold a crayon, and wave hello. Each finger has small bones inside that let it bend.
Thesaurus\n\nA thesaurus is a special book or list that helps you find other words that mean the same thing. For example, if you look up the word "big," a thesaurus shows you words like "huge" and "large." Some thesauruses also show words that mean the opposite, like "small." People use a thesaurus when they write stories or papers to find better words.
Watermill\n\nA watermill is a machine that uses moving water to do work. Water pushes a big wheel or a special fan called a turbine. The wheel turns and makes other parts move. Long ago, people used watermills to grind grain into flour for bread. They also used watermills to cut wood or shape metal. Watermills were built near rivers or streams. The water flows through a channel to the wheel. Then the water leaves through another channel. Some watermills have a wheel that lies flat, and some have a wheel that stands up straight. Watermills helped people do hard work without using their own strength.
Lungfish\n\nA lungfish is a special kind of fish that lives in fresh water. It has both lungs and gills, so it can breathe air and water. Lungfish live in small lakes and rivers that sometimes dry up. When the water goes away, the lungfish can stay alive in the mud for a very long time, even up to four years. It uses its lungs to breathe while it sleeps in the mud. There are eight kinds of lungfish. Most live in Africa, and one lives in South America and one in Australia.
Altruism\n\nAltruism is when you help someone else without wanting anything back. It means doing something nice just for the other person, like sharing a toy or giving a hug. You might give up your time or something you have, but you don't expect a reward. It is the opposite of being selfish. Many people think it is good to be kind to others. Some scientists say that animals also help each other, like when a bird warns its friends about danger. Religions like Buddhism and Christianity teach that helping others is important.
Commerce\n\nCommerce is when people buy and sell things. It is like a big store where you can get toys, food, or clothes. Some people sell cars, and some sell things on the computer. Commerce can happen between towns or even between different countries.
Mummification\n\nMummification is a way to keep a dead body from rotting. The skin and muscles dry out and look like old leather. Long ago in Egypt, people made mummies on purpose. They believed the body needed to stay whole for a next life. They took out the soft parts inside, dried the body with salt, and wrapped it in cloth bandages. This took about 70 days. They also made mummies of cats, dogs, and birds. Some mummies happen by themselves in very dry, cold, or hot places. Mummies have been found all over the world.
History of Europe\n\nThe history of Europe is the story of all the people who lived in Europe long ago up to today. A long time ago, there were people called the Greeks and the Romans. The Romans had a big empire, but it fell apart. Then there was a time called the Middle Ages, when knights lived in castles and the Black Death made many people sick. Later, people discovered new lands across the ocean, like America. There were big wars, like World War I and World War II. After that, Europe was split into two parts: one part where people could vote and one part where the government told everyone what to do. In 1989, the Berlin Wall came down, and many countries joined together to make the European Union.
Angola\n\nAngola is a country in Africa. It is on the west side of Africa, next to the Atlantic Ocean. The big ocean touches its coast. Angola shares borders with Namibia, Zambia, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The capital city is Luanda. Many people live there. Angola has a hot rainy season and a dry season. The country is very big, the seventh largest in Africa.
Thought experiment\n\nA thought experiment is a pretend experiment that happens in your mind, not in a real room. You do not need any tools or toys. You just think about a question like "what would happen if...?" and try to guess the answer. Scientists and smart people use thought experiments to learn new things. Anyone can do a thought experiment by using their imagination.
Mandolin\n\nA mandolin is a musical instrument that you play by hitting its strings. It has eight strings and a body made of wood. The mandolin sounds a little like a violin. People hold it and hit the strings to make music.
Harbor\n\nA harbor is a safe place in the water where big boats called ships can rest. Some harbors have docks where ships stop to drop off or pick up things. People use trucks and trains to move those things to other places. A harbor can be made by nature, like a bay, or built by people, like a special wall in the water.
Zambia\n\nZambia is a country in Africa. It is in the southern part of Africa. Zambia shares its land with many other countries. The capital city is Lusaka, and it is the biggest city in Zambia. The country is named after the Zambezi River. Zambia has a big waterfall called Victoria Falls, which is one of the most famous waterfalls in the world. People in Zambia speak many different languages, but the main language is English. Zambia used to be called Northern Rhodesia. It became its own country on October 24, 1964. The first leader was Kenneth Kaunda. Now, the people vote for their leader. The current leader is Hakainde Hichilema. Zambia has a lot of copper, which is a metal that people dig out of the ground. Selling copper helps the country get money.
Civil law\n\nCivil law is a set of rules that countries use to make sure people are treated fairly. It started a very long time ago in a place called Rome. Many countries like France and Germany use civil law. In civil law, there are books called codes that tell everyone what their rights and duties are. Judges look at these codes to decide what is right or wrong. This is different from common law, which is used in some other countries like England and the United States.
Qur'an\n\nThe Qur'an is the holy book of Islam. Muslims believe it is God's words. They think an angel named Gabriel told the words to a man named Muhammad a long time ago. The Qur'an is written in Arabic. Many Muslims read it in Arabic, but some read it in other languages to understand it better. The book has 114 parts called chapters. Each chapter has verses that tell people how to be good and kind. Muslims love and respect the Qur'an very much.
Pulse\n\nA pulse is a little thump you can feel in your body. It happens when your heart pushes blood through your veins. You can feel your pulse on your wrist, thumb, or neck. When you run and play, your pulse goes faster. A normal pulse is less than 100 thumps in one minute. If your pulse is too fast or too slow, you might be sick.
Graph\n\nA graph is a picture that shows how two things are connected. It has a line going up and a line going right. You can put dots on the graph to show numbers. For example, you can make a graph of how tall you are each year. The dots help you see if something is getting bigger or smaller. People use graphs to understand numbers better.
Osprey\n\nAn osprey is a big bird that eats fish. It is also called a fish hawk. It has dark brown wings, a white belly, and a white head with a dark stripe over its eyes. Its beak is black, and its feet are white with sharp black claws. The osprey has long, narrow wings and a short tail. When it flies, its wings make an arch shape. Ospreys live near water with lots of trees and lakes. In Scotland, people protect osprey nests so the birds can come back every year. Many people go to see them.
Lamprey\n\nA lamprey is a fish that looks like an eel and has no jaws. It has a round mouth like a sucking cup with sharp teeth. Lampreys live in rivers and oceans in cool parts of the world. They have no bones, only soft stuff like your ear. They have seven little holes on each side to breathe. Some lampreys are small like a ruler, and some are as long as a big dog.
Accent\n\nAn accent is the way a person says words. People from different places say the same words in a different way. For example, someone from Britain might sound different from someone from America. You can still understand them, but you can tell they are from another place. People learn to talk like the people around them when they are little. Even in the same country, people can have different accents. Long ago, accents were even stronger. Now, because of radio and TV, people sound more alike.
Knight\n\nA knight is a person who gets a special title from a king or queen. Long ago, knights were the best soldiers in the kingdom. They rode horses and wore heavy armor. They had a rule called chivalry, which meant they had to be brave and kind. Knights got land for their work. Today, knights do not fight anymore. King Charles III can still make someone a knight by tapping their shoulders with a sword. A knight is called "Sir" before their name. Some famous people like Bill Gates and Elton John have been made knights.
Gravel\n\nGravel is tiny pieces of rock that are loose on the ground. Some gravel pieces are as small as a grain of rice, and some are as big as a marble. Gravel is bigger than sand but smaller than big rocks. People use gravel to make roads and paths. They also mix gravel with sand and sticky stuff to make concrete for sidewalks and driveways. Gravel comes from old beaches that turned into rock a long time ago. Workers dig up the gravel and sort it by size. Most gravel is made of a hard material called silica. Sometimes people crush big rocks like granite to make gravel too.
Romania\n\nRomania is a country in Europe. It is near the Black Sea and the big Danube River. Tall mountains called the Carpathians go through the middle of Romania. The capital city is Bucharest, which is the biggest city. Many people live in Romania, about 19 million. The people there speak Romanian. Romania has four seasons: spring, summer, fall, and winter. In winter, snow falls on the mountains. The country has forests, rivers, and farms. Children go to school for ten years. Some famous foods from Romania are corn mush called mămăligă, sausages called mici, and stuffed cabbage rolls called sarmale. People celebrate Christmas and Easter, and also a special day called Great Union Day.
Narrative\n\nA narrative is a story. It tells about things that happen one after another. When you read a book or hear a tale, the narrative is the part that tells what happens. It is like the path the story follows from the beginning to the end.
Clothes dryer\n\nA clothes dryer is a machine that takes water out of wet clothes after washing. It has a round drum that spins the clothes around. Hot air blows into the drum to dry the clothes. The wet air goes out through a pipe. Some dryers use electricity to make heat. Others use gas. Some dryers do not have a pipe. They cool the air and collect the water in a tank or send it down a drain.
Scandinavian Mountains\n\nThe Scandinavian Mountains are a long chain of tall rocks that run through Norway, Sweden, and Finland. The mountains are very steep on the side that faces the sea, and they make deep, narrow water places called fjords. Some mountains are so high that snow and ice stay on them all year. The highest mountain in Norway is called Galdhpiggen. In Sweden, the highest is Kebnekaise. In Finland, the highest is Halti. These mountains are very cold because they are close to the Arctic. Many reindeer live there.
Table salt\n\nTable salt is a white mineral that people put on food to make it taste good. It comes from the sea or from rocks in the ground. When you mix salt with water, it disappears into the water. Salt helps your body work the right way, but eating too much can be bad for you. Long ago, people used salt to keep food from going bad.
Nice\n\nNice is a city in France, next to the sea. It has many beaches where you can play in the sand and swim in the water. The weather is warm and sunny in summer, and not too cold in winter. Many people visit Nice because it is beautiful. There are also museums with pretty paintings. The food in Nice is very good, like fish soup and salad. Some people there speak a different language called Nissart.
Slate\n\nSlate is a kind of rock that comes from mud and clay deep underground. It is pressed very hard and gets hot, which makes it split into flat, thin pieces. People use slate for roofs on houses to keep rain out. Some slate is used for floors, walls, and even gravestones. Long ago, children in school wrote on blackboards made of slate.
Airline\n\nAn airline is a company that flies people and things from one place to another in big airplanes. Some airlines have just one airplane, and some have many. Airlines take people to different cities and countries. They have to pay for fuel, pilots, and the people who help you get on the plane.
Mobile phone\n\nA mobile phone is a small phone that you can carry with you. It lets you talk to people far away without any wires. The phone uses radio waves to talk to a tall tower nearby, and the tower sends your voice to the other person. When you walk or drive, the phone switches from one tower to the next so your call keeps working. Many mobile phones today are smartphones. A smartphone is like a tiny computer. You can use it to send messages, take pictures, play games, and look at maps. Most smartphones have a touchscreen, which means you touch the screen to do things. People carry their mobile phones in their pockets or bags.
Sweden\n\nSweden is a country in the north of Europe, next to Norway and Finland. People who live there are called Swedes. The capital city is Stockholm, which is very big. Sweden has a king, but he does not make the rules. The people vote for who runs the country. Most people in Sweden speak Swedish. Sweden has not been in a war for a very long time. Many famous singers and sports players come from Sweden.
Aircraft\n\nAn aircraft is a machine that flies in the sky. Some aircraft have wings and move air over them to stay up, like airplanes, helicopters, and gliders. Other aircraft float in the sky, like balloons and airships. Most aircraft use an engine to fly, but gliders and balloons do not. Big airplanes that carry people are called airliners. They are the fastest way to travel and can fly over mountains and bad weather. The person who flies an aircraft is called a pilot.
Armadillo\n\nAn armadillo is a small animal with a hard shell on its back. The shell looks like armor and helps keep it safe. Armadillos live in warm places in South America and Central America. They like open areas like grasslands, but some live in forests too. Most armadillos are about as long as a big ruler, from their nose to the tip of their tail. The biggest kind, called the giant armadillo, can be as long as a yardstick and weigh as much as a big dog. A mother armadillo can have four babies at once, and all four babies look exactly the same because they come from one egg.
World's Fair\n\nA World's Fair is a big show where countries share their best things. People from all over the world come to see new machines, art, and food. The first World's Fair was a long time ago, in the 1800s. A group called the BIE helps make sure the fairs are fair and fun.
Concept\n\nA concept is an idea in your head. It is how you think about something. For example, the word "dog" is the name for the idea of a dog. Everything you know about a dog is the concept of a dog. Different words can mean the same idea. "Car" and "automobile" are different words for the same idea. People in different countries use different words for the same idea. That is how people can talk about the same thing in different languages.
Myanmar\n\nMyanmar is a country in Southeast Asia. It is very big and not an island. The capital city is Naypyidaw. The biggest city is Yangon. Myanmar has forests, rivers, and a long coast by the sea. It shares borders with China, Laos, Thailand, Bangladesh, and India. Many people live there. The country has many kinds of rocks and metals in the ground. A long time ago, a king ruled Myanmar. Then the British took over. Later, Japan took it for a while. Myanmar became its own country in 1948. After that, the army took charge and has been in charge for a long time. The army changed the name from Burma to Myanmar in 1989. Some people still call it Burma. The country has had many fights inside it for many years.
Barracuda\n\nA barracuda is a long fish that lives in warm oceans. It can grow as long as a big bed. Barracudas have sharp teeth and long bodies. They like to stay near the top of the water around sea grass and coral reefs. They eat fish that are silver and shiny. Sometimes they try to bite shiny things people wear, like bracelets, because they think it is a fish. But barracudas do not attack people very often. They swim very fast when they chase food.
Hades\n\nHades is a king in old Greek stories. He rules a place under the ground where people go after they die. Hades is the brother of Zeus and Poseidon. He is married to a goddess named Persephone. Hades has a special hat that makes him invisible. His favorite fruit is the pomegranate. People long ago were scared of Hades, so they did not build many temples for him.
Great Smoky Mountains National Park\n\nGreat Smoky Mountains National Park is a big park in the United States. It is in two states, Tennessee and North Carolina. The park has many tall mountains. Some mountains are so high that clouds sit on top of them. Many kinds of animals live there, like black bears, birds, and fish. There are also many trees and flowers. People can walk on trails and camp in the park. It is a very popular place to visit.
Atmospheric pressure\n\nAtmospheric pressure is the push of air all around us. The air is like a big blanket over the Earth. In some places the blanket is thicker, so the push is stronger. In other places the blanket is thinner, so the push is weaker. High up on a mountain, there is less air above, so the push is smaller. A tool called a barometer can measure this push. The push comes from every direction, not just from above.
Redwood\n\nA redwood is a very tall tree that grows in forests near the ocean in Northern California. It is one of the biggest trees in the world. Redwood trees have thick, hard bark that helps them stay safe from fire. Their cones open only after a fire. Some redwood trees are so big that many children could hold hands around them. The tallest tree in the world is a redwood named Hyperion. The biggest tree in the world by size is a redwood named General Sherman Tree.
White\n\nWhite is the brightest color. You can make white light by putting all the other colors together: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet. White is the color of snow and clouds. It makes us think of clean things, like a fresh sheet of paper. Many people wear white clothes for special happy days. Doctors and nurses wear white because it looks clean and safe.
Orion nebula\n\nThe Orion Nebula is a big, bright cloud in the night sky. You can see it with your eyes if you look near the belt of the Orion star picture. It is very far away, but it is the closest place where new stars are born. Inside the cloud, there are more than 700 baby stars that are just starting to grow. Some of these baby stars have flat, spinning disks around them. Those disks might one day turn into planets, just like the ones in our own sky. The Orion Nebula is like a big nursery for stars and planets.
Anglerfish\n\nAn anglerfish is a fish that lives deep in the ocean. It has a special part on its head that looks like a fishing pole with a little light at the end. The anglerfish uses the light to trick other fish into coming close. When the other fish swim near the light, the anglerfish opens its big mouth and eats them. Anglerfish are dark brown and have sharp teeth that point inward so their food cannot get away. Some anglerfish are very small, only as long as your finger. People in some parts of the world eat anglerfish as food.
Reflex\n\nA reflex is a very fast move your body makes all by itself. When something touches your hand, you pull it away before you even think. That is a reflex. Your body does this to keep you safe. The message to move does not go all the way to your brain. It goes to your spine and back to your muscle. That is why it is so fast. Even after a snake dies, its head can still bite. That is a reflex too.
Archaeopteryx\n\nArchaeopteryx is a very old animal that lived a long, long time ago, about 150 million years. It was a small dinosaur with feathers and wings, like a bird. But it also had a mouth with teeth, claws on its hands, and a long tail. Archaeopteryx could fly a little bit. Scientists found its bones in Germany. It helps us learn how some dinosaurs turned into birds.
Tigris\n\nThe Tigris is a very long river in the Middle East. It starts in the mountains in Turkey and flows through Syria and Iraq. The Tigris and another river called the Euphrates run close together. Long ago, people used the water from the Tigris to grow food for their families. The river is very important for the land around it.
French food\n\nFrench food is a kind of cooking that started in France. People all over the world like to eat it. French cooks use butter, cream, herbs, and cheese to make tasty dishes. They also make many kinds of sauces. Some famous French foods are quiche, which is like a pie with eggs and cheese, and bouillabaisse, which is a fish soup. In the north of France, people cook with butter. In the south, they use olive oil and garlic. French bread and cheese are very popular. Many people think French food is very special.
Naja\n\nA Naja is a kind of snake that can be very dangerous. It is called a true cobra. These snakes live in Africa and Asia. They can make the top part of their neck get big and flat. Some of them have pretty colors on their neck. They eat small animals like mice and birds. You should stay away from a Naja because it can hurt you.
Video game console\n\nA video game console is a machine that you use to play video games. It usually connects to a TV so you can see the game on the big screen. You hold a special controller in your hands to move the characters and play the game. Some consoles are small and you can carry them around. They have their own little screen, so you can play games anywhere. The Nintendo DS and PlayStation Portable are two kinds of handheld consoles. Some consoles can also run other programs, like Linux.
Cloud\n\nA cloud is made of tiny water drops or ice crystals high in the sky. Water from the ground goes up into the air and turns into a gas. When the air gets cold, the gas turns back into tiny drops that we see as clouds. Clouds can be white, gray, or even colorful at sunrise and sunset. Some clouds are big and fluffy, and some are thin and flat. When clouds get very full, the water drops fall down as rain or snow. Very big clouds can make thunder and lightning. Sometimes low clouds touch the ground, and we call that fog.
International Date Line\n\nThe International Date Line is an imaginary line that goes from north to south in the Pacific Ocean. It helps people know what day it is. When you cross this line going west, the date becomes one day later. When you cross it going east, the date becomes one day earlier. For example, if you fly from Tonga to Samoa, you might arrive the day before you left! The line is not straight. It bends around islands and countries so that all the islands in one country have the same date. Some places are on different sides of the line, so they have different days at the same time.
Sinai Peninsula\n\nThe Sinai Peninsula is a big piece of land in Egypt. It looks like a triangle. One side touches the Mediterranean Sea, and another side touches the Red Sea. It is the only part of Egypt that is in Asia. Many people live there. Long ago, different groups fought over this land. Now, people visit Sinai to see pretty coral reefs and Mount Sinai, a very special mountain.
Paris\n\nParis is a big city in France. It is the capital city, which means the most important city in the country. Many people live there. A river called the Seine runs through Paris. Paris has many old buildings and art museums. There is a train that goes underground called the Metro. People from all over the world visit Paris to see famous places like the Eiffel Tower. You can find food from many different countries there.
Sioux\n\nThe Sioux are a group of Native American people. They live in the middle part of the United States. Long ago, they met people who came from far away across the ocean. Today, the Sioux have two main groups called the Dakota and the Lakota. They speak different languages.
Ecuador\n\nEcuador is a small country in South America. It sits right on the equator, which is an imaginary line around the middle of the Earth. Ecuador has tall mountains called the Andes, thick jungles, and a coast on the Pacific Ocean. The capital city is Quito, which is high up in the mountains. The biggest city is Guayaquil on the coast. Ecuador also has the Galapagos Islands, which are far away in the ocean and have many special animals. People in Ecuador speak Spanish. The country grows bananas and cocoa, which is used to make chocolate. There are many old churches and buildings in Quito that are very beautiful.
Marriage\n\nMarriage is when two people promise to live together as a family. They often love each other and want to stay together for a long time. Some people get married in a church, and some get married in a special ceremony. Married people take care of each other and may have children. In some places, a man can be married to more than one woman. In other places, two men or two women can get married. People usually get married when they are grown-ups, between 25 and 30 years old.
So Tom and Prncipe\n\nSo Tom and Prncipe is a country made of two islands in the ocean near Africa. The islands are called So Tom and Prncipe. They are far apart from each other. The weather is hot and rainy. Many trees and plants grow there. People grow cocoa, which is used to make chocolate. The people speak Portuguese. The country used to belong to Portugal, but now it is its own country. The capital city is So Tom.
Monkey\n\nA monkey is an animal that lives in trees. Monkeys are smart and like to be with other monkeys. They have a tail, even if it is short. Some monkeys live in trees all the time, and some live on the ground too. Monkeys mostly eat fruit, but they also eat bugs and other food. They live in warm places like forests. Monkeys have long arms and legs to help them swing from tree to tree. Some monkeys can hold onto branches with their tails. The smallest monkey is the pygmy marmoset, which is very tiny. The biggest monkey is the mandrill, which is much bigger. A group of monkeys is called a troop.
Macau\n\nMacau is a small city in China, near the coast. It is a special place that makes its own rules, like having its own money and passport. Many people live there, more than half a million. Macau used to belong to Portugal, so some buildings and food have Portuguese style. People in Macau speak Cantonese most of the time. Macau is famous for its big casinos, where people play games for money. It makes a lot of money from gambling, even more than Las Vegas. Only in Macau can people gamble in China. Many rich people from China go there to play.
Impact event\n\nAn impact event is when two things in space crash into each other. This happens a lot in our Solar System. Most of the time, the things that crash are small, like rocks or ice balls. When a big rock hits a planet like Earth, it can make a big hole called a crater. You can see craters on the Moon and Mars. The air around Earth helps break up small rocks before they hit the ground. Sometimes we see them as bright streaks in the sky. A long time ago, a big rock hit Earth and helped make the Moon. Another big crash 66 million years ago may have made the dinosaurs go away. People watch the sky to see if any big rocks are coming toward Earth.
Kolkata\n\nKolkata is a big city in India. It is on the side of a river called the Hooghly. Many, many people live there. It was once the capital of India a long time ago. The city has old buildings and busy streets. People there speak a language called Bengali. Kolkata is also known as the "City of Joy." It has big markets, parks, and places to eat yummy food. Some people ride in yellow taxis or on trams that run on tracks. The city is very old, and people have lived there for a very long time.
Titan (mythology)\n\nThe Titans were big, strong beings from old Greek stories. They were the children of the Earth and the Sky. There were twelve of them, and they were the first gods to rule the world. Later, they fought a big war against the Olympian gods and lost. Some of the Titans were sent to a dark, deep place called Tartarus. The children of the Titans became other gods, like the Sun, the Moon, and the Dawn.
Neighbourhood\n\nA neighbourhood is a part of a city or town where people live close to each other. People in a neighbourhood often talk and help each other. Long ago, neighbourhoods helped keep people safe and clean. Some neighbourhoods have people who are from the same place or do the same job. Today, neighbourhoods can have groups that plan parties or watch out for each other.
Decapod\n\nA decapod is a sea animal with ten legs. Crabs, lobsters, shrimp, and crayfish are all decapods. They have a hard shell on the outside. The front two legs often have big claws for pinching. The other legs help them walk on the ocean floor. Some decapods eat dead plants and animals. Others eat small sea creatures or plants. They live in water all over the world.
History\n\nHistory is about things that happened a long time ago. People learn about history by looking at old things like books, letters, buildings, and tools. Museums keep these old things so we can see them. A person who studies history is called a historian. Sometimes people talk to old people who remember things from the past, and that is called oral history. Long ago, people in different parts of the world did not know about each other, so they each had their own history.
Messiah\n\nThe Messiah is a special person that some people believe God promised to send to help the world. In the Jewish religion, people think the Messiah will come to save them and make things better. In the Christian religion, people believe that Jesus is the Messiah. They say Jesus died and came back to life to help everyone. In the Muslim religion, people also believe Jesus is the Messiah and that he will come back one day. Different people have different ideas about what the Messiah will be like.
Radio broadcasting\n\nRadio broadcasting is when people send sounds through the air without wires. The sounds travel as waves from a tall tower to a radio in your home or car. You can hear music, news, and stories on the radio. Some radios use AM or FM to pick up the sounds. Other radios get signals from satellites high in the sky. Radio stations make their own shows or get them from other places.
Organ (biology)\n\nAn organ is a part inside your body that does a special job. Your heart is an organ that pumps blood. Your lungs are organs that help you breathe. Your stomach is an organ that helps break down food. All your organs work together to keep you healthy and strong.
Waste\n\nWaste is stuff that people do not want anymore. It is also called trash, garbage, or junk. Waste can be solid like old food, paper, or broken toys. It can also be liquid or gas. People throw away waste every day at home. Some waste, like fruit peels and paper, can be turned into new things. That is called recycling. Other waste is burned or buried in big piles called landfills. It is important to put waste in the right place so it does not hurt the earth or people.
Baby\n\nA baby is a very young person, younger than about 1 or 2 years old. A new baby is called a newborn. Babies cannot talk yet, so they cry to tell you what they need. A baby's head has soft spots that later turn into hard bone. Some babies are born with a funny-shaped head, but it gets round again soon. After a baby learns to walk, we call them a toddler.
Coral snake\n\nA coral snake is a small, colorful snake with red, yellow, white, and black bands. It has small fangs that shoot poison to catch its food. Coral snakes eat smaller snakes, lizards, frogs, baby birds, and mice. They are not mean and hardly ever bite people. Some coral snakes live in the United States, like in Florida and Texas. They like to live in dry, rocky places.
Bomber\n\nA bomber is a big airplane that drops bombs on the ground. Long ago, bombers had many people inside, like a pilot and gunners with machine guns. They flew low and slow. Today, bombers have only one or two people because computers help. They fly very fast and drop a bomb, then leave quickly.
Crab\n\nA crab is a small animal that lives in the sea. It has eight legs and two big claws called pincers. A crab uses its claws to catch food and to fight. Its body is hard like a shell. Crabs can be very tiny, like a pea, or very big, like a spider. They eat almost anything, like plants and small animals. People all over the world eat crabs for dinner. Some crabs live in the ocean, and some live on land.
Experience\n\nExperience is what you learn when you do something or watch someone else do it. It is learning by doing. For example, if you want to learn to play a game, you play it many times. You make mistakes and learn from them. That is better than just reading about the game. There are different kinds of experience. When you do or see something yourself, that is first-hand experience. When someone tells you about it, that is second-hand experience. When you imagine doing something and feel it in your mind, that is vicarious experience. Some people also have religious experiences, like dreams or visions where they feel close to God.
3D\n\n3D means something has three ways you can measure it. A box is 3D because it has length, width, and height. You can pick it up and turn it around to see all its sides. A piece of paper is not 3D because it is very thin. 3D pictures are used in video games and movies to make things look real. Your eyes help you see in 3D by looking from two different spots.
Nobility\n\nNobility is a group of people who were very important a long time ago. They were friends of the king or queen and helped rule the land. Nobles got land from the king and had to help him, especially by being soldiers. Many noble families passed their titles down to their children. Some nobles were very rich and did not have to work. Others were poor. Today, most countries do not give nobles special treatment, but in the United Kingdom, some nobles still have a seat in the House of Lords.
East Timor\n\nEast Timor is a small country in Southeast Asia. It is on an island called Timor, and it also has some smaller islands. The capital city is Dili, where many people live. East Timor has many mountains and is very hot. The country used to be ruled by Portugal, and then Indonesia took it over. In 2002, East Timor became its own country. People there speak Portuguese and other languages. The country is near Australia and Indonesia.
Saint Petersburg\n\nSaint Petersburg is a big city in Russia. It is near the sea and has a big port where ships come and go. Many people live there. A long time ago, a king named Peter the Great started the city. He wanted it to be a new kind of city with beautiful buildings and canals. Canals are like little rivers that people made. That is why some people call it the 'Venice of the North.' The city has changed its name a few times. During a big war, it was called Petrograd. Later it was called Leningrad. Now it is called Saint Petersburg again. There are pretty buildings like the Winter Palace and the Hermitage Museum. The city has many islands too.
Generation\n\nA generation is a group of people who were born around the same time. In a family, your brothers, sisters, and cousins are in the same generation as you. Your parents and their brothers and sisters are in a different generation. Grandparents are in another generation. Each generation is like a step on a family tree.
Vancouver\n\nVancouver is a big city in Canada, right next to the ocean. Many people live there, and they come from all over the world. The city has a big park called Stanley Park with beaches and tall wooden poles with carvings. There is also a mountain nearby where you can ski and see wolves and bears. Vancouver has sports teams that play hockey, football, and soccer. In 2010, the Winter Olympics were held there. The weather is usually not too hot or too cold, but it rains a lot.
African art\n\nAfrican art is art made by people who live in Africa. Africa is a very big place with many different countries. The art from each country can look different. Some African art is made of wood, clay, or metal. People carve shapes of animals and people. They also make colorful masks and cloth with bright patterns. Some art is used for dancing or special celebrations.
Human geography\n\nHuman geography is a kind of learning about people and the places where they live. It looks at how people and the world around them change each other. People live in different places, and they move from one place to another. They have different ways of doing things, like how they play and what they like. The way people live can change over time and in different spots on Earth. This kind of learning also looks at how people and their towns grow and change.
Sugar beet\n\nSugar beet is a plant that grows in the ground. Its big root is full of sweet stuff that people use to make sugar. Sugar beets are grown on farms so we can have sugar for our food. They are related to chard, which is a green vegetable you can eat. Many countries grow sugar beets, and about one-third of all the sugar in the world comes from them.
Solar eclipse\n\nA solar eclipse happens when the moon moves right between the earth and the sun. The moon blocks the sun's light for a little while. This can only happen when the moon is new. During a total solar eclipse, the sky gets dark in the middle of the day. It looks like night for a few minutes. Long ago, people thought a solar eclipse was a bad sign. Today, people know it is just a natural event. You should never look directly at the sun during an eclipse because it can hurt your eyes very badly. Special glasses can keep your eyes safe.
Data\n\nData is a bunch of facts and numbers that people collect. It helps grown-ups make good choices. For example, if you count how many toys you have, that is data. Computers store data as tiny bits inside them. Data can be things you can see, like colors, or things you can count, like how many cookies are in a jar. When you put data together, you can learn something new, like how warm it is outside.
Hangul\n\nHangul is the alphabet used for writing the Korean language. A long time ago, a king named Sejong made Hangul in 1443. He wanted people to be able to read and write easily. The letters in Hangul look like the shapes your mouth makes when you say them. That is why Hangul is easy to learn. Today, people in North Korea and South Korea use Hangul to write. When you write Hangul, you put letters together in little blocks. Each block makes one sound, like 'han' or 'geul'.
Dnieper\n\nThe Dnieper is a very long river in Europe. It starts in Russia, goes through Belarus and Ukraine, and ends in the Black Sea. It is one of the biggest rivers in Europe. Long ago, Greek people called it the Borysthenes.
Biome\n\nA biome is a big area on Earth where certain plants and animals live. For example, a hot and dry place is a desert biome, and a cold and snowy place is a tundra biome. Different biomes have different weather and different kinds of trees and animals. Some biomes are forests, grasslands, or deserts. The plants and animals in a biome are good at living in that place.
Ice age\n\nAn ice age is a very long time when the Earth is very cold. The cold makes big sheets of ice grow on the land and at the North and South Poles. During an ice age, the ocean gets lower because a lot of water is frozen into ice. Sometimes it gets a little warmer for a short time, and then it gets cold again. The last cold time ended about 11,000 years ago. Now we are in a warm time. Big ice sheets still cover Greenland and Antarctica. People have been burning things that make the Earth warmer, so the ice is melting.
Yosemite National Park\n\nYosemite National Park is a big park in California, USA. It has tall waterfalls, like Yosemite Falls, which is one of the tallest in the world. Many people visit every year to see the beautiful valley and big rocks. Most of the park is wild nature with trees and animals.
Earth science\n\nEarth science is about our planet Earth. It is the study of what Earth is made of, how it works, and how it changes. Earth science has many parts. Geology is about rocks, mountains, and volcanoes. Oceanography is about the big oceans that cover most of Earth. Meteorology is about the sky and weather, like rain and wind. Astronomy looks at how the Sun and Moon affect Earth. All these parts work together to help us understand Earth better.
Bathing\n\nBathing is when you put your body in water to get clean. People take baths in a bathtub or shower to wash away dirt and feel fresh. Sometimes people bathe just for fun, like splashing in a pool. Bathing can also help you feel better when you are sick. Some people even bathe in mud or chocolate, but most of the time we use water and soap.
Vampire bat\n\nA vampire bat is a kind of bat that drinks blood. Most bats eat bugs or fruit, but vampire bats drink blood from other animals. They live in warm places like Mexico, Brazil, Chile, and Argentina. Vampire bats sleep in big groups of up to 100 bats. They can spread sickness, so people stay away from them. Their spit has a special thing that stops blood from getting thick, and doctors use that to help people with heart problems. Some bats look like vampire bats but eat fruit or small animals instead of blood.
Ultrasound\n\nUltrasound is a sound that is too high for people to hear. Some animals like dogs, bats, and dolphins can hear it. Doctors use ultrasound to take pictures of babies inside their mommies. It is safe because it does not use x-rays. Ultrasound can also clean things like glasses and jewelry by making tiny bubbles that pop and wash away dirt.
Feminism\n\nFeminism is about making sure boys and girls are treated the same and have the same rights. A long time ago, women could not vote or do many things that men could do. Some brave women called suffragettes held big protests so women could vote. Later, feminism worked for other things like jobs, school, and how women are treated at home. Today, feminism still helps make the world fair for everyone, no matter if you are a boy or a girl.
Miracle\n\nA miracle is something very special and amazing that happens. It is so wonderful that people think it must be a gift from God or another powerful being. Some miracles are big, like when the moon was split into two pieces. Other miracles are small and happen to just one person. Many people believe in miracles, and they read about them in books like the Bible.
Bark\n\nBark is the outside covering of a tree. It is like a coat that keeps the tree safe. Some bark is rough and bumpy, and some bark is smooth. Bark can be brown, gray, or even white. It grows on the trunk and branches of the tree. Bark helps the tree stay strong and healthy.
Bone\n\nBones are the hard parts inside your body that make up your skeleton. They hold your body up and help you move. Without bones, you would be like a soft pile on the ground. Bones also protect important parts inside you. Your skull protects your brain, and your ribs protect your heart and lungs. Bones are alive and need exercise and food like milk and spinach to stay strong. The soft part inside some bones, called bone marrow, makes your blood cells.
Money\n\nMoney is what people use to buy things they need or want. A long time ago, people did not use money. They traded things like cows or wheat for other things. But that was hard because cows are big and wheat can go bad. So people started using coins made of metal. The first coins were made in a place called Lydia a very long time ago. Later, people used paper money too. Today, money can also be numbers in a bank computer. Different countries have different kinds of money, like dollars or rials. Money helps us get food, toys, and clothes.
Saffron\n\nSaffron is a spice that comes from a flower. It is very expensive. People use it to give food a yellow color and a special taste. Saffron tastes a little bitter and smells like hay. It comes from a purple flower that grows in the fall. The flower has three red parts inside that are picked by hand. It takes many flowers to make just a little bit of saffron. People have used saffron for a very long time, even thousands of years ago. They put it in food, tea, and baths.
Hedgehog\n\nA hedgehog is a small animal with many sharp spines on its back. It has between 5000 and 7000 spines. Hedgehogs live in Europe, Asia, Africa, and New Zealand. When they are scared, they curl up into a ball. They eat bugs, snails, frogs, snakes, bird eggs, mushrooms, berries, and melons. Sometimes they look for worms after rain. Hedgehogs sleep during the day and wake up at night. They sleep a lot in the winter, from November to March. Their spines are not poisonous and are safe to touch. Some people keep hedgehogs as pets, but they are not allowed in some places.
Okra\n\nOkra is a green vegetable that grows on a plant. It is also called lady's fingers. The plant has flowers and is related to cotton and hibiscus. People eat the green seed pods when they are still small and soft. Okra can be fried, grilled, or put in soup. It is a popular vegetable in many warm countries like Nigeria, Ghana, India, and Pakistan.
Dock\n\nA dock is a flat place built over water where boats can park. It is like a wooden floor that sticks out from the land into the water. People tie their boats to the dock so the boats do not float away. The dock is held up by long poles that go deep into the ground under the water.
Colonization\n\nColonization is when people from one country move to another place to live and take control of it. A long time ago, people from Europe went to North America and South America. They built new towns and farms there. Many of the people who already lived there were hurt or killed. Today, most people in North America have families that came from Europe long ago. Some stories about space talk about people living on other planets, which would be a new kind of colonization.
Antelope\n\nAn antelope is an animal that lives in Africa and parts of Asia. It has four legs with hooves and eats grass. Antelopes have horns on their heads that never fall off. Some antelopes are very fast and can jump high. A group of antelopes is called a herd. Many antelopes move to new places when it rains to find fresh grass to eat.
Evolution\n\nEvolution is how living things change over a very long time. It is how new kinds of animals and plants come to be. All living things are a little bit different from each other. Some differences help them find food, stay safe, or have babies. These good differences get passed to their babies. Over many, many years, living things change so much that they become new kinds of animals or plants. We know this happened because we find old bones and shells in rocks, called fossils. Fossils show that animals and plants from long ago are not the same as the ones today. Scientists also look at the tiny parts inside living things, called DNA, to see how they are related. All life on Earth comes from one very old living thing.
United Nations\n\nThe United Nations is a group of many countries that work together. It started in 1945 after a big war to help countries talk instead of fight. Almost every country in the world is part of it. The main home of the United Nations is in New York City. People from different countries meet there to make rules and help each other. The United Nations also sends helpers to places where there is trouble to keep peace. It works to stop people from being hungry or sick and to take care of the Earth.
Meal\n\nA meal is food that people eat. People usually eat three meals each day. The first meal is breakfast, which you eat in the morning. Breakfast can have cereal, bread, fruit, and milk. The next meal is lunch, which you eat around noon. Lunch can be a sandwich, soup, or fruit. The last meal is dinner, which you eat in the evening. Dinner often has meat, rice or pasta, vegetables, and sometimes a sweet treat like cake.
Table (furniture)\n\nA table is a piece of furniture with a flat top and legs that hold it up. People put things on a table, like food, cups, books, or toys. Some tables have a cloth on top. You can make some tables bigger by pulling the top out. Some tables fold up so you can carry them, like for camping. There are small tables on trains and planes that fold down. A round table might have a Lazy Susan that spins in the middle. A table used outside is called a picnic table. In Japan, some tables are low and round for tea and food.
Mile\n\nA mile is a way to measure how far something is. It is like a long line on the ground. People in the United States and the United Kingdom use miles to say how far they have walked or driven. A long time ago, the Romans made up the mile. They said it was one thousand steps. Today, a mile is a little longer than one and a half kilometers. There is also a special mile for boats and airplanes called a nautical mile. When a boat goes one nautical mile in one hour, we say it is going one knot.
Plaice\n\nA plaice is a fish that lives in the sea. It is flat and has both eyes on one side of its head. The top side of a plaice is brown with orange spots, and the bottom side is white. Plaice likes to hide on the sandy bottom of the ocean.
Fruit\n\nA fruit is a part of a plant that holds seeds. Many fruits are sweet and good to eat. Fruits grow on trees, bushes, or vines. Some fruits have a soft inside and a thin skin, like grapes and blueberries. Other fruits have a hard skin, like pumpkins and watermelons. Apples and pears have a core in the middle that you do not eat. Peaches and olives have a hard pit inside. Fruits have water and sugar, which makes them taste yummy. Animals and people eat fruits, and the seeds inside help new plants grow.
Gibbon\n\nA gibbon is a small ape that lives in warm forests in places like Sumatra, Thailand, and Malaysia. Gibbons are very good at swinging from tree to tree using their long arms. They can also walk on the ground with their arms up in the air. Gibbons make loud singing sounds that travel far through the forest. They sing to talk to other gibbons and to tell strangers to stay away. During the day, gibbons look for leaves, flowers, fruit, and bugs to eat. At night, they sleep in trees. Male gibbons are usually black, and female gibbons are often light yellow. A baby gibbon is called an offspring, and gibbons can live for about 25 years.
Arctic Circle\n\nThe Arctic Circle is an imaginary line around the top part of the Earth. It is very cold there. Inside the Arctic Circle, the sun does not come up in the middle of winter, and it does not go down in the middle of summer. The North Pole is in the middle of the Arctic Circle. Some countries like Canada, Russia, and Norway are partly inside the Arctic Circle.
Pufferfish\n\nA pufferfish is a fish that can puff up like a ball. When it feels scared, it gulps water and gets twice as big. Then it swims very slowly. Most pufferfish live in warm ocean water near coral reefs. Some live in rivers too. They have four big teeth that are stuck together like a plate. They use these teeth to crunch hard shells of crabs and snails. Pufferfish are very poisonous, so you should never eat one unless a special chef makes it safe. In Japan, people eat a special kind called fugu. Some people keep pufferfish as pets in fish tanks.
Dentistry\n\nDentistry is a job about teeth. A dentist is a doctor who checks teeth, fixes them, and helps stop tooth problems. Some helpers work with the dentist. A dental hygienist helps people clean their teeth. A dental assistant helps the dentist when fixing a patient's teeth. A dental surgeon fixes big tooth problems with surgery. An orthodontist moves teeth with braces.
Rule of law\n\nThe rule of law means that everyone must follow the same rules, even the people in charge of the country. No one is allowed to break the law just because they are powerful. The rule of law helps keep people safe and stops anyone from being a dictator. It also makes sure that the government uses money fairly. Many countries use the rule of law to protect the rights of all people.
Espionage\n\nEspionage is when someone tries to find out secret information without asking. This is also called spying. A spy is a person who looks for secrets about a group or a country. Sometimes a spy works for two sides at once. Spying is against the rules in a war.
Quarry\n\nA quarry is a big hole in the ground where people dig up rocks. Workers cut the rocks into big blocks to build houses and other buildings. When a quarry is done being used, it can fill up with water and become a little lake.
Volume\n\nVolume is how much space something takes up. A big rock takes up more space than a little rock. Everything around you takes up space, even a thin piece of paper. People measure volume with special tools. For liquids, you can pour them into a cup with marks on the side. For a small toy, you can put it in water and see how much the water goes up. Volume can change if you squeeze something soft, like a sponge.
Scotland\n\nScotland is a country that is part of the United Kingdom. It is in the north part of the island of Great Britain. The capital city is Edinburgh. The biggest city is Glasgow. About five million people live there. Scotland has many islands and a long coast. The North Sea is to the east and the Atlantic Ocean is to the west. Long ago, Scotland was its own kingdom. Now it is part of the United Kingdom. People in Scotland speak English and some speak Scottish Gaelic.
Soldier\n\nA soldier is a person who works in an army. Some soldiers choose to join, and some are asked to join. There are many kinds of soldiers. Some drive tanks, some jump from planes, and some help sick people. Soldiers wear special clothes and follow orders to keep their country safe.
Addis Ababa\n\nAddis Ababa is a big city in Africa. It is the capital of a country called Ethiopia. Many people from different places live there. They speak many different languages. The city is high up on a mountain. It was started a long time ago by a king and queen. There is a big school there called a university. Many people live in Addis Ababa today.
Free will\n\nFree will is being able to choose between different actions. It means you can decide what to do, like picking a toy or a snack. If you could not choose, then saying something is good or bad would not make sense. People give advice and make rules because they think you can choose. In court, judges and juries try to find out if someone decided to do something bad on purpose. Some people think the world works like a clock, where everything is already decided. That idea is called determinism. If that were true, then free will would not exist. But many people believe we do have free will, because we feel like we make choices every day.
Ninja\n\nA ninja was a kind of spy who lived in Japan a long time ago. Ninjas were very good at hiding and sneaking. They wore dark blue, red, or brown clothes, not always black. Ninjas could pretend to be other people, like a merchant or a traveling monk. They used short swords and other weapons. Ninjas were trained from a young age to be strong and smart. They could climb walls and move quietly. Some people thought ninjas could fly, but that is just a story. Today, you see ninjas in movies and cartoons.
Humpback whale\n\nA humpback whale is a very big animal that lives in the ocean. It has long front flippers and a bumpy head. Humpback whales can be found in every ocean. They can grow as long as a big bus and weigh as much as many cars. They eat tiny shrimp and small fish. Sometimes they blow bubbles in a circle to trap their food. Male humpback whales sing long songs that can last many hours. They make sounds by pushing air through their nose. We do not know why they sing. Both males and females make grunts and moans to talk to each other. Humpback whales live alone and travel far each year.
Labrador Sea\n\nThe Labrador Sea is a big part of the ocean near Canada and Greenland. It is very deep in some places and gets shallower near the north. In winter, much of the sea is covered with ice. Seals have their babies on the ice in early spring. Many fish live there, like salmon and cod. People used to catch a lot of cod, but then there were not enough fish, so they stopped. Whales also swim in the sea, like sei whales and minke whales. Birds like ducks and geese live near the coast. Plants like black spruce and Labrador tea grow along the shore. People make tea from Labrador tea leaves.
Taekwondo\n\nTaekwondo is a way of fighting that started in Korea. It uses your hands and feet to kick and punch. Kicking is very important in taekwondo because your legs are strong and long. People practice taekwondo to get strong, fast, and balanced. You can also learn to break a board with your hand or foot. In taekwondo, you wear a belt that shows how much you have learned. The belt colors start with white and go to black. Respect is a big part of taekwondo. You bow to your teacher and to other students. Taekwondo is a sport in the Olympic Games.
Sun\n\nThe Sun is a big, hot ball of gas in the sky. It is a star, just like the stars you see at night, but much closer to us. The Sun gives us light and heat. Without the Sun, Earth would be too cold for anything to live. Plants need sunlight to grow, and animals and people need plants to eat and breathe. The Sun is very, very big. More than one million Earths could fit inside it. The Sun is made mostly of two kinds of gas: hydrogen and helium. Deep inside the Sun, hydrogen turns into helium and makes a lot of energy. This energy travels to Earth as light and heat. It takes about eight minutes for sunlight to reach us. The Sun looks yellow from Earth, but it is really white. Sometimes you can see dark spots on the Sun called sunspots. The Sun is about four and a half billion years old. It will keep shining for a very long time.
Aegean Sea\n\nThe Aegean Sea is a big body of water between Greece and Turkey. It is part of the Mediterranean Sea. Many islands are in this sea, like Crete and Rhodes. Long ago, people called the Minoans and Mycenaeans lived near the Aegean Sea. They sailed on boats to trade with each other. Some of the islands have mountains that go underwater. Other islands have safe places for boats to stop. A few islands have volcanoes, and some have rocks that people use to make things. The sea is blue and pretty, and many people visit it.
Climate\n\nClimate is what the weather is usually like in a place over a very long time, like thirty years. Weather is what happens outside today, but climate is the big picture. There are different kinds of climate: hot and wet like a jungle, hot and dry like a desert, warm and cool like where you live, cold like the North Pole, and warm with dry summers like near the sea. Where you live on Earth, how high the ground is, and if there is a big ocean nearby can change the climate. People can make the climate warmer in some places, but sometimes places get very cold too.
Jade\n\nJade is a pretty stone that comes in many colors. People use it to make jewelry like necklaces and rings. Long ago, people in China and the Maori used jade to make knives and tools because it is very hard. Later, people liked jade because it looked nice and they thought it was lucky. Only rich people could have jade because it was rare and cost a lot of money.
Ancient Egypt\n\nAncient Egypt was a very old country that started a long, long time ago. It grew along the Nile River, which gave water for growing food. The people there built big stone buildings called temples and tombs. They had a special way of writing with pictures called hieroglyphs. The rulers were called pharaohs, and people thought they were close to the gods. The Egyptians believed in many gods and goddesses, like Ra the sun god and Bastet the cat goddess. They also made mummies of dead people and cats. Farming was important because the Nile flooded every year and left rich dirt for growing wheat and barley. The people paid taxes with food or work instead of money.
Riyadh\n\nRiyadh is a big city in Saudi Arabia. It is the capital, which means it is the most important city in the country. Many people live there, more than six million. Riyadh is in the middle of a hot desert, so summers are very hot. In winter, it is warm but the nights can be cool. There is not much rain, but sometimes dust storms blow sand everywhere. The city has old places like Diriyah, which is a special old town that people visit. There are tall buildings like the Kingdom Center. People in Riyadh go shopping, eat food, and have fun.
Time zone\n\nA time zone is a part of the world where everyone uses the same clock time. The Earth is round, so when it is daytime on one side, it is nighttime on the other side. There are 24 time zones. Each time zone has a name, like the Eastern Time Zone in North America. Long ago, each city had its own time. Then trains started going fast between cities, so people made time zones to help everyone know what time it is. The main time zone is called UTC. Some places change their clocks in summer to have more daylight in the evening. That is called Daylight Saving Time.
Smelting\n\nSmelting is a way to get metal from rocks called ore. Most metals like iron, copper, and silver are found mixed with other stuff in the ground. To get the metal out, people heat the ore very hot in a special oven. Sometimes they add other things to help clean the metal. The hot metal melts and flows out, and the leftover rock turns into slag. Slag can be used to make bricks or roads. Iron is made in a tall oven called a blast furnace. Copper is heated on a fire to burn off bad stuff. Aluminum needs electricity to be made from its ore. Smelting helped people long ago make tools and build things.
Cyclone\n\nA cyclone is a big, spinning wind that goes around and around. It is like a giant circle of wind in the sky. The wind blows very fast and can knock down trees and houses. Cyclones have a quiet spot in the middle called the eye. Around the eye, the wind blows the hardest. Cyclones are also called hurricanes or typhoons in different places. They can be very dangerous, so people must stay inside when one comes.
Family name\n\nA family name is a name that people in the same family share. In English, it is called a last name or surname, and it comes at the end of a person's full name. Children usually have the same family name as their father. When a woman gets married, she often changes her last name to be the same as her husband's. For example, if Mary Brown marries John Smith, she becomes Mary Smith, and their children are David Smith and Kate Smith. Sometimes people use their mother's family name instead. In some languages, the family name comes first. In Spanish, children get both parents' family names. In Russian, the family name changes if the person is a boy or a girl. Some people, like the Javanese, do not use family names at all.
Printmaking\n\nPrintmaking is a way to make art by printing pictures, usually on paper. The good thing about printmaking is that you can make many copies of the same picture. Each copy is called a print. The artist makes a picture on a flat piece of wood, metal, or stone. Then they put ink on it and press paper on top. The picture shows up on the paper. You can do this many times to make lots of prints. Some prints are made with wood blocks, and some are made with linoleum. People have been making prints for a very long time.
Orange (color)\n\nOrange is a color. It is made by mixing red and yellow together. The color orange is named after the orange fruit. Before people in England knew about the orange fruit, they called this color 'yellow-red'. Orange is a bright and warm color. You can see it in pumpkins, carrots, and the setting sun.
Warsaw\n\nWarsaw is a big city and the capital of Poland. It is the biggest city in that country. About two million people live there. Warsaw sits on a river called the Vistula. The city has many schools, theaters, and art galleries. Long ago, in the 13th century, people started living there. By the 15th century it became a city. It became the capital of Poland in 1596. Warsaw was broken many times, but people always built it again. One famous place is the Palace of Culture and Science. Another is a palace in Wilanów where a king once lived. Many people visit the Museum of the Warsaw Uprising.
North Korea\n\nNorth Korea is a country in East Asia, next to China, Russia, and South Korea. The capital city is Pyongyang. North Korea is a place where the leader is very powerful and people must follow many rules. The country was split from South Korea after a war, and they are still separated by a special line called the DMZ. North Korea has made big rockets that can fly very far, and other countries worry about them. Life in North Korea is hard for many people because there is not enough food and the country is very closed off from the rest of the world.
Belt\n\nA belt is a strip of cloth or leather that you wear around your waist. It helps hold up pants or skirts. Belts have a buckle and holes to make them tighter or looser. Many belts are black or brown. Some people, like police officers, wear belts with pockets to carry things. Cowboys also wear belts with special buckles.
Special effect\n\nSpecial effects are tricks that movies use to show things that are not real. They can make little models of big things like a ship and blow it up. That is safer and cheaper than using a real ship. Movies about space or monsters often use computers to make pictures of things that do not exist, like three suns in the sky. These computer pictures are called CGI.
Happiness\n\nHappiness is a good feeling inside you. When you feel happy, you might smile, laugh, or feel excited. You can feel happy when you play with your friends, get a hug, or eat your favorite food. Happiness is the opposite of sadness, but sometimes you can feel both at the same time. No one is happy all the time, and that is okay. When you are very happy, you might even cry a little because the feeling is so big.
Chard\n\nChard is a green vegetable that you can eat. It has big green leaves and thick stems that can be white, red, or yellow. Chard is in the same plant family as spinach. You can cook chard or eat it raw in a salad. It tastes a little bit like spinach.
Pension\n\nA pension is money that someone gets every month after they stop working. People who are very old or cannot work anymore get a pension. The money comes from the place where they used to work or from the government. A pension helps people buy food and pay for a home when they are not working anymore.
Hinduism\n\nHinduism is a way of life and a religion that started in India. Many people around the world follow Hinduism. It is one of the oldest religions. Hindus believe in doing good things, being honest, and helping others. They also believe that every action has a result, called karma. Hindus celebrate many festivals and visit special places called temples. They have many holy books, like the Vedas and the Ramayana. Some Hindus believe in many gods, and some believe in one god. Hinduism teaches people to be kind to animals and to live a good life.
Wire\n\nWire is a long, thin piece of metal that can bend. Wires are made from different metals like copper or aluminum. Some wires carry electricity to lights and toys. The outside of electric wires has a colored cover to keep you safe. If you touch the metal part with electricity, it can hurt you. Wires help make many things work, like TVs and computers.
Tian Shan\n\nThe Tian Shan is a very big group of mountains in the middle of Asia. The highest mountain in this group is called Jengish Chokusu. Some parts of these mountains are special places that people all over the world want to keep safe. The mountains sit along the edge of China and Kyrgyzstan. Long ago, people walked next to these mountains on a road called the Silk Road to travel from one side of Asia to the other.
Cart\n\nA cart is a thing with two wheels that can carry things. Long ago, a horse or a donkey would pull a cart. Sometimes a person would push or pull a cart by hand. People have used carts for a very long time. Today, you see shopping carts at the grocery store. A shopping cart is a metal basket on wheels that you push around the store to hold your food and other things.
Lentil\n\nA lentil is a tiny, round seed that grows inside a pod on a small plant. The plant is about as tall as a ruler. Lentils come in many colors like yellow, red, green, brown, and black. People have been eating lentils for a very long time, even before they had pots to cook in. Lentils are good for you because they have lots of protein and iron. They do not need to cook for very long. You can eat them in soup or with rice. In India, many people eat lentils because they are healthy and taste good.
Ritual\n\nA ritual is a set of actions people do in a special way. Each action in a ritual means something. Rituals can be part of a religion or a tradition. They can mark a big change in a person's life, like when a child grows up. After a ritual, people often celebrate. Some rituals are done to show that a person belongs to a group.
Canary Islands\n\nThe Canary Islands are a group of islands in the ocean near Africa. They belong to Spain. There are seven big islands: La Palma, La Gomera, El Hierro, Tenerife, Gran Canaria, Lanzarote, and Fuerteventura. The islands were made by volcanoes a long time ago. Tenerife has a very tall mountain called Teide, which is a volcano that has not erupted for more than 300 years. The weather is warm and sunny, so many people go there to visit the beaches. Farmers grow yummy fruits like bananas and papayas. On the island of La Gomera, children learn a special way to talk by whistling. A long time ago, people called Guanches lived there first. Then people from Spain came and took over the islands.
Longevity\n\nLongevity means living a very long time. Some people live longer than others. Scientists study how to help people live longer. Long ago, people told stories about living for hundreds of years. Some stories said there was a special fountain that could make you young again. Today, people in rich countries often live to be 80 or 90 years old. In the future, people might live even longer.
Kale\n\nKale is a vegetable with green or purple leaves. It is a kind of cabbage. Kale has big curly leaves that are not round. It can grow in very cold weather, even when it is freezing outside. People in Scotland, Germany, and other cold places used to eat kale in winter. Now people all over the world eat it. Kale is very good for you. It has lots of vitamins that help your body stay strong. You can cook kale in soup or stew, or put it in a salad. Some people like to eat it with cheese or mashed potatoes. When you buy kale, pick leaves that are firm and bright. Wash the leaves well before you eat them. You can keep kale in the fridge for a few days.
Star formation\n\nStar formation is how new stars are born. It starts in big, dark clouds in space called 'stellar nurseries'. These clouds are made of gas and dust. The gas and dust clump together and get pulled by gravity into a ball. The ball gets very hot and starts to glow. That is a new star. Some stars are born in places called Bok globules, which are small, dark clouds. The Orion nebula is a place where big stars are being born. Astronomers can watch stars form by using special telescopes.
Sailing\n\nSailing is moving a boat by using the wind. The wind pushes the boat's big cloth, called a sail, and the boat goes forward. Long ago, people used sailing boats to carry things and people across water. Now, most boats use engines, but some people still sail for fun. Sailing is also a sport, and it is in the Olympic Games.
Sea of Azov\n\nThe Sea of Azov is a big body of water that is very shallow. It is the shallowest sea in the whole world. The sea touches Ukraine on one side and Russia on the other side. A river called the Don flows into it. Some cities near the sea are Berdjansk, Mariupol, Taganrog, and Jeisk. People live in these cities and use the sea for fishing and boats.
Unicorn\n\nA unicorn is a make-believe animal that looks like a small horse. It has one long, white horn on its head. In stories, unicorns are very shy and hard to catch. People say only a kind girl can get close to a unicorn. The unicorn is the special animal of Scotland.
Dadaism\n\nDadaism is a way of making art that started a long time ago, around the time of a big war. The artists who did Dadaism did not like war or the way people lived. They made art that was silly and strange on purpose. They wanted to show that anything could be art if someone said it was. They used things like cut-up paper, sounds, and funny words. Dadaism began in a place called Zurich and later moved to Paris. The name "Dada" might come from a baby's first sounds or from a toy horse. Dadaism helped other kinds of art later, like pop art and punk rock.
Cat\n\nA cat is a small animal with soft fur. People keep cats at home as pets. Cats live in many countries all over the world. They can be black, white, gray, orange, or many other colors. A cat has four legs, a long tail, two pointy ears, and small sharp claws. Cats sleep for many hours every day. They like to play at night and run very fast. When a cat is happy, it makes a soft humming sound called a purr. A cat can also meow when it wants food or wants to be near you. A baby cat is called a kitten, and kittens are very small and cute. Some cats like to hunt little mice or birds in the garden. Many children love to pet a cat because the fur feels warm and soft.
New Zealand\n\nNew Zealand is a country made of two big islands and many small ones. It is in the Pacific Ocean, far away from most other places. The capital city is Wellington, and the biggest city is Auckland. People in New Zealand often call themselves Kiwis, after a bird that cannot fly. The country has many special birds and animals that live only there. Before people came, there were no land mammals except bats. New Zealand has volcanoes and earthquakes because it sits where two big pieces of the Earth's crust meet.
Madrid\n\nMadrid is a big city in Spain. It is the capital, which means the king lives there and the government meets there. More than 3 million people live in Madrid. It is high up in the mountains, so it is cool in winter and sometimes snows. Summer is hot and dry. Madrid has many old buildings, like the Royal Palace and the Prado Museum. There are also big parks, like the Retiro Park. People in Madrid love football, and there are four big football teams. The city has a long history, with many different people living there long ago.
Fruit preserves\n\nFruit preserves are a way to keep fruit good to eat for a long time. People mix fruit with sugar and boil it. Then they put the hot mix into glass jars. When it cools, the jar seals tight. This keeps the fruit fresh. You can spread it on bread. Jams, jellies, and marmalade are kinds of fruit preserves.
Subsistence farming\n\nSubsistence farming is when a farmer grows food only for their own family to eat. They do not grow extra food to sell. The farmer has a small piece of land or not much water. If the weather is bad, there is less food and the family may go hungry. This kind of farming happens in many poor villages around the world. Some farmers move from place to place with their animals to find grass. It is hard work, but it helps the family have food to eat.
Chopsticks\n\nChopsticks are two long, thin sticks that people use to pick up food and eat. They are made of wood, bamboo, or plastic. Many people in China, Japan, Korea, and other Asian countries use chopsticks every day. You hold both sticks in one hand and move them like tweezers to grab food. Chopsticks are also used in cooking to stir food in a pan. Some chopsticks are used only once and then thrown away, but that makes a lot of trash. That is why some people now use chopsticks many times.
Golden eagle\n\nA golden eagle is a very big bird that hunts other animals. It has sharp claws on its feet to catch food like rabbits and squirrels. Golden eagles live in many places around the world, like North America, Europe, and parts of Africa. They are one of the biggest birds that hunt in North America. Only the California condor is bigger. Golden eagles also live in the Scottish Highlands.
Space exploration\n\nSpace exploration is when people send rockets and machines to outer space. People want to learn more about space. Long ago, people could only dream of going to space. Then rockets were made that could fly up high. The first satellite was Sputnik 1, sent up in 1957. Later, people went into space and some even walked on the Moon. Machines have gone to many planets to send back pictures and information. Before people went to space, animals were sent first to see if it was safe. The first person in space was Yuri Gagarin in 1961. Space is very big and has many stars and planets.
Mountain pass\n\nA mountain pass is a path that goes between two mountains. It looks like a saddle, with higher ground on each side. People use passes to cross from one side of a mountain to the other. Long ago, people walked through passes to trade goods or move to new places. Today, roads and train tracks often go through passes. Some passes have tunnels under them so cars can go faster. The top of a pass is flat, so people sometimes build houses or shops there. Famous passes include the Khyber Pass and the Great St Bernard Pass.
Raven\n\nA raven is a big black bird. It looks like a crow but is bigger. Its feathers are all black. A raven can be very smart. Some people think it is a trickster bird. A famous story has a raven in it.
Pulley\n\nA pulley is a simple machine that helps lift heavy things. It has a wheel with a rope around it. When you pull the rope down, the heavy thing goes up. A pulley makes it easier to lift big boxes or toys. Some pulleys work together in a set called a block and tackle. You can find pulleys in elevators and at building sites.
Mutton\n\nMutton is meat that comes from a grown-up sheep. A baby sheep is called a lamb, and its meat is called lamb. When the sheep gets older, its meat is called mutton. Mutton tastes stronger than lamb. People cook mutton and eat it for dinner.
Mesa\n\nA mesa is a hill or mountain that looks like a big table. The top is flat and the sides are steep. People sometimes call it a "table mountain." Mesas are found in Spain, Africa, and some parts of the United States.
Ash tree\n\nAn ash tree is a tall tree that grows in many parts of the world. Its leaves are light green and oval-shaped, with many small leaflets. The seeds look like little keys and are called samaras. Ash wood is strong and is used to make baseball bats, bows, and tool handles. In old stories, the first man was made from an ash tree. Some ash trees are in danger because of a small bug called the emerald ash borer and a sickness called ash dieback.
Genetics\n\nGenetics is about how living things get traits from their mom and dad. It is like a science that studies why you look like your parents. Inside your body are tiny things called cells. Each cell has a long string called DNA. DNA holds the instructions for how your body grows. Small parts of DNA are called genes. Genes tell your body what color your eyes will be or how tall you will grow. You get one set of genes from your mom and one from your dad. Sometimes a gene is strong and shows up, like brown eyes. Other times a gene is quiet and hides, like blue eyes. A long time ago, a man named Gregor Mendel learned about genes by growing pea plants. He saw that tall plants had tall babies and short plants had short babies. His work helped us understand how traits pass from parents to children.
Rodent\n\nA rodent is a small animal with teeth that keep growing all the time. Rodents have to chew on hard things to keep their teeth short and sharp. Mice, rats, chipmunks, and squirrels are rodents. Some people keep hamsters, guinea pigs, and gerbils as pets. Bigger rodents are porcupines, beavers, and capybaras. Rabbits and hares look like rodents but they are not. Almost half of all mammal animals are rodents.
Lawsuit\n\nA lawsuit is when two people or groups ask a judge to help fix a problem. The person who starts the lawsuit is called the plaintiff. The other person is called the defendant. Each side has a lawyer who talks to the judge for them. Both sides show proof and ask questions to witnesses. Then the judge decides who is right. The judge may make the loser pay money or stop doing something.
Ambulance\n\nAn ambulance is a special car that helps sick or hurt people. It takes them to the hospital. Ambulances have flashing lights and a loud siren to tell other cars to move out of the way. Inside, there is a bed for the person to lie down. A doctor or a helper rides in the back to take care of the person. People call an ambulance by dialing 911 in the United States or 999 in the United Kingdom. Some ambulances are helicopters that fly very fast to reach people in faraway places.
Wu Chinese\n\nWu Chinese is a way of talking that people use around Shanghai in China. It is a group of many different ways of talking, and they can be very different from each other. Some important people spoke Wu Chinese a long time ago. People who study languages call it Wu. But now, more people are starting to speak Mandarin instead of Wu.
Judiciary\n\nThe judiciary is a group of people who help make fair decisions when there is a problem. They work in special buildings called courts. The people in the judiciary are called judges. Judges listen to both sides of a story and then decide what is right. In the United States, the highest court is called the Supreme Court. Each state also has its own courts. The judiciary is one part of the government, and it helps make sure everyone follows the rules.
Karma\n\nKarma is a word that means what you do comes back to you. If you are kind, good things may happen to you. If you are mean, bad things may happen to you. It is like a rule that says your actions have results. Many people believe in karma. It helps you learn to be a better person.
Portrait\n\nA portrait is a picture of a person's face. It can be a painting or a photograph. The person in a portrait looks right at the person making the picture. A portrait shows how the person looks and feels. The person sits very still so the picture comes out clear.
Brown rat\n\nThe brown rat is a big rodent with brown or gray fur. It has a long body and a tail that is a little shorter. Brown rats live in many places around the world, except in very cold places like Antarctica. They like to live near people, especially in cities and towns. Some people think brown rats caused a sickness called the plague, but that is not true. The sickness is spread by fleas on other animals like ground squirrels.
Great Sphinx\n\nThe Great Sphinx is a very big stone statue in Egypt. It has a human head and a lion's body. The statue is 200 feet long and 65 feet tall. That is as long as a big swimming pool and as tall as a house. The Sphinx sits near the pyramids in a place called Giza. It is very old, built by people long ago. No one knows exactly why it was made. Some people think it was a guard. The Sphinx is getting worn down by wind, rain, and city air. People are working to keep it safe.
Visual system\n\nThe visual system is the part of your body that helps you see. It takes light from the world around you and turns it into pictures in your brain. Your eyes are like little cameras that catch the light. Then your brain figures out what you are looking at. Different animals see different colors. For example, bees can see colors that people cannot see.
Inference\n\nInference is when you know something and then figure out something else from it. For example, if you see wet ground, you can guess that it rained. It is like being a little detective and using what you already know to learn new things.
Japanese mythology\n\nJapanese mythology is a set of old stories from Japan. These stories are about gods and spirits that live in nature. Some stories tell about the sun goddess and how the emperor of Japan came from her. The stories come from very old books that people wrote long ago.
Social order\n\nSocial order is how people live together in a nice way. It means a group of people follow rules so everyone can be safe and happy. Long ago, people lived in different ways, like with kings and queens. When people follow the rules, there is no fighting or trouble. Some smart people thought about why we need rules and how we agree to follow them.
David\n\nDavid was a king of Israel a long time ago. He is in the Old Testament of the Bible. When David was a boy, he took care of sheep. He used a sling to throw stones and keep wild animals away from the sheep. He also played a harp and wrote songs. Many of his songs are in the book of Psalms. David fought a big giant named Goliath. Goliath was very tall and strong, but David hit him with a stone from his sling and won. Later, David became king. He was the father of King Solomon. People still remember David today.
Chicago\n\nChicago is a big city in the middle of the United States. It sits next to a huge lake called Lake Michigan. Many people live there, more than two million. Chicago has very tall buildings called skyscrapers. The first skyscraper in the world was built there in 1885. The city is known for deep-dish pizza and hot dogs with lots of toppings. You can see a big park by the lake called Millennium Park. There is also a long pier called Navy Pier where you can ride a big Ferris wheel. Many airplanes fly in and out of O'Hare Airport, one of the busiest in the world. Chicago has lots of museums, like the Art Institute and the Museum of Science and Industry. People visit from all over to see the city.
Radio\n\nRadio is a way to send sounds and messages through the air without wires. A special machine sends out radio waves, and another machine catches them. You can listen to music and news on a radio. People also use radios to talk to each other, like police officers and firefighters. Some radios are small and you can carry them around. Cars have radios too. Radio waves can go a long way, even around the world.
Human\n\nA human is a person. Humans are animals that walk on two legs. They have a big brain that helps them think, talk, and feel. Humans live in groups and help each other. They take care of their children for a long time. Humans use tools and make things like houses, clothes, and toys. They can make fire and cook food. Humans live all over the world. There are more than 8 billion humans on Earth. Humans come in many colors and sizes. They speak different languages and have different customs. Humans like to learn new things and make art and music.
Web design\n\nWeb design is when someone makes a web page or a website. A web page can have pictures, music, and moving parts. Some web pages are for stores, and some are for people. Web designers use special computer words to build pages. They pick colors, letters, and pictures to make the page look nice. A good web page helps people find what they need easily.
Megabat\n\nA megabat is a big kind of bat that eats fruit. These bats are also called flying foxes. They live in forests in Africa, Europe, Australia, and Asia. Megabats sleep during the day hanging upside down from their feet. At night they fly around to find food. They eat fruit juice and flower nectar. They use their nose to smell where the food is. Megabats help plants grow by spreading seeds and pollen. Some megabats can carry germs that make people sick, but that is very rare.
Multiculturalism\n\nMulticulturalism is when many different kinds of people live together in one place. These people may have different ways of eating, talking, or celebrating. In a multicultural place, no one way is the only way. Everyone's way is treated with kindness. This happens when people move from faraway countries to a new country. It is good to be nice to people who are different from you. When people from different backgrounds work and play together, they learn about each other's fun traditions.
Roller skating\n\nRoller skating is a fun activity where you wear special shoes with wheels on the bottom. You can roll around on flat ground like a sidewalk or a skating rink. Some people play games on roller skates, like roller hockey or roller derby. Others dance to music while skating. The wheels on the skates are set up so you can turn easily. Roller skating makes you feel fast and happy.
Scientist\n\nA scientist is a person who studies how the world works. Scientists ask questions and do experiments to find answers. They work in labs for schools, companies, or the government. Some scientists teach at schools and help other people become scientists. Scientists use special steps to test their ideas. There are many kinds of scientists, like ones who study animals, plants, or space.
Prose\n\nProse is the way we talk and write every day. It is not like a poem with rhyming words. Prose looks like a bunch of sentences put together in paragraphs. You see prose in storybooks, letters, and newspapers. It does not have a special beat or rhythm. Prose is just plain talking and writing.
Syllable\n\nA syllable is a part of a word that you say in one sound. Every word has at least one syllable. For example, "cat" has one syllable, and "water" has two. Some syllables end with a consonant sound, like "cat". Other syllables end with a vowel sound, like "go". Some languages, like Japanese, write each syllable with one sign. English has many different kinds of syllables.
Prague\n\nPrague is a big city in Europe. It is the capital of the Czech Republic. Many people live there. Prague is very old and has many beautiful buildings. There is a big castle on a hill. There is a famous bridge called Charles Bridge. People walk on the bridge and look at statues. In the middle of the city there is a big square with a clock that shows moving figures. Many tourists visit Prague to see the old streets and buildings. The city has a river called the Vltava that flows through it. People ride trams and trains to get around. Prague also has a big airport where planes come and go.
River\n\nA river is a long, moving stream of water that flows across the land. It starts high up in hills or mountains as a small, fast stream. The beginning is called the source. As it flows downhill, it gets bigger and wider. The middle part is called a mature river, and it often has bridges over it. Many towns and farms are built along rivers. The end of a river is called the mouth, where it flows into the ocean or a lake. Some rivers flow underground through caves. People and animals drink fresh water from rivers.
Gland\n\nA gland is a part of your body that makes special stuff like sweat or spit. You have many glands inside you. They help keep your body working right. For example, glands in your mouth make spit to help you eat. Glands in your skin make sweat to cool you down.
New World vulture\n\nNew World vultures are big birds that live in North and South America. They eat meat from dead animals. They have a very good nose and can smell food from far away. Their nostrils have a hole that goes all the way through their beak. When they walk on the ground, they walk instead of hop. The biggest ones are called condors.
Heat\n\nHeat is a kind of energy that makes things warm. When you touch something hot, like a stove, heat moves from the stove to your hand. Heat moves from hot things to cold things. Adding heat to something makes it hotter. Heat is not the same as temperature. Temperature tells how fast the tiny bits inside a thing are moving. Heat can move in different ways. You can measure heat with a tool called a calorimeter. The units for heat are calories or joules.
Russian language\n\nRussian is a language that people speak in Russia and many other countries. It is a Slavic language, like Ukrainian and Belarusian. Russian uses special letters called the Cyrillic alphabet, not the ABC letters we use in English. Many people around the world speak Russian. In Russian, a person's name has three parts: a first name, a middle name from their father, and a last name. For example, a boy named Ivan whose father is Nikolai might be called Ivan Nikolaevich. Girls add an 'a' to the end of their last name. Russian words change their endings to show who is doing what in a sentence, so the order of words can be different from English.
Electric field\n\nAn electric field is a special kind of force that you cannot see. It is around things that have electric charge, like a battery or a balloon you rub on your hair. The electric field pushes or pulls other charged things. If you put a tiny charged ball near it, the ball will move. Michael Faraday was the first person to think about electric fields. Electric fields also happen when a magnet changes over time.
Mahogany\n\nMahogany is a kind of wood that comes from a big tree. The tree grows in warm places like islands in the ocean. People use mahogany to make strong boats and pretty furniture. The wood is hard and lasts a long time. It does not get dirty easily. Mahogany trees can grow very tall.
Central Asia\n\nCentral Asia is a big area in the middle of Asia. It has six countries: Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, and Tajikistan. Long ago, people walked across this land on a road called the Silk Road to trade things. Many different groups ruled Central Asia, like the Persians, Arabs, Mongols, and Russians. In 1991, all the countries became free. Today, some places grow cotton, and others sell oil and gas. The cities of Bukhara and Samarkand are very old and have beautiful buildings.
Retirement\n\nRetirement is when people stop working. They may stop because they are old, or sick, or just want to. Usually, they have saved money to help them. Some people still work a little bit. If they need help, they might move to a special home where people take care of them. The word can also mean something is no longer used, like an old car.
Krishna\n\nKrishna is a very important god in the Hindu religion. People believe he came to Earth as a special helper of the god Vishnu. Krishna was a real person who fought in a big war called the Mahabharata. He is a main person in a holy book called the Bhagavad Gita. Many people think of him as a brave fighter, a smart teacher, and a great leader. He beat a mean king named Kansa, who had put Krishna's mother and father in jail.
Noun\n\nA noun is a word that names something. It can name a person, like 'mom' or 'dad'. It can name a place, like 'school' or 'park'. It can name a thing, like 'ball' or 'book'. It can even name an animal, like 'cat' or 'dog'. Some nouns name ideas, like 'love' or 'fun'. Every language has nouns. In English, nouns can be one (singular) or more than one (plural). For example, 'cat' is one cat, and 'cats' is many cats. Proper nouns are special names for one thing, like 'London' or 'John'. They start with a big letter. Common nouns are general names, like 'city' or 'boy'.
Evaporation\n\nEvaporation is when water turns into a gas and goes into the air. You can see it happen when a puddle of water dries up. The water disappears because it turns into tiny bits called water vapor that mix with the air. Heat makes evaporation happen faster. Wind also helps water evaporate faster. Evaporation is part of how water moves from the ground up to the clouds.
Hammerhead shark\n\nA hammerhead shark is a fish with a head that looks like a hammer. This special head helps it see all around, even what is under and above it. Hammerhead sharks live in the ocean and can be big or small. They are light grey with a green tint and a white belly. They like to eat stingrays, fish, and even other sharks. Baby hammerhead sharks are born alive and swim together in groups until they are big enough to be alone. Some hammerhead sharks can be dangerous to people, but not all of them. In Hawaii, people think hammerhead sharks are special protectors of the ocean.
Ballet\n\nBallet is a special kind of dance. Dancers who do ballet have to practice a lot. They tell a story using only their bodies and music. The dancers wear special shoes and pretty costumes. They spin, jump, and stand on their tiptoes. Ballet is performed on a stage in a theater. People watch and clap. A famous ballet is "The Nutcracker." Ballet started a long time ago in France and Russia.
East China Sea\n\nThe East China Sea is a big body of water next to China. It is part of the Pacific Ocean. The sea touches China, South Korea, Japan, and Taiwan. The Yangtze River, which is a very long river, flows into this sea. Many ships travel on the East China Sea.
Officer\n\nAn officer is a person with an important job in a group like the army or police. Other people in the group must do what the officer says. Some officers are called captains or lieutenants. An officer helps keep things safe and in order.
Kilogram\n\nA kilogram is a way to measure how heavy something is. It is a little more than two pounds. One liter of water weighs almost exactly one kilogram. A kilogram is used by people all over the world to weigh things like food, animals, and toys. A long time ago, a special piece of metal was made to be the perfect kilogram. It is kept safe in a glass jar in France. The metal does not rust because it is made of platinum and iridium.
Alhambra\n\nThe Alhambra is a big, old palace and fort in Spain. It sits on a hill near the city of Granada. Long ago, Muslim rulers lived there with their families. Today, many people visit the Alhambra to see its pretty buildings and gardens. The walls have beautiful shapes and patterns. In 1492, new kings took over the land, but the Alhambra was not broken.
Beet\n\nA beet is a plant that grows a round or long root under the ground. The most common kind is red beetroot, which people eat as a vegetable. Some beets are used to feed cows, and others are used to make sugar.
Philodendron\n\nA philodendron is a green plant that people grow inside their homes. It has big, shiny leaves and grows fast. Some philodendrons climb up walls or hang down from pots. They are easy to take care of and do not need much water. Philodendrons can help clean the air inside a room by taking away bad things in the air.
Language\n\nLanguage is how people talk to each other. Only humans use language. People can use words, writing, or hand signs to share ideas. Every language has rules for putting words together to make sentences. Children learn their first language best when they are very young, from about one and a half to four years old. Some languages are spoken by many people, like Chinese and English. English is used by people all over the world for science, travel, and fun. Some made-up languages, like Esperanto, were created so people from different countries can talk to each other.
Wind power\n\nWind power is a way to make electricity from the wind. The wind turns big blades on a tall tower, like a giant fan. The blades spin a machine inside that makes electricity. Wind power is clean because it does not make dirty smoke or bad air. It comes from the wind, so it never runs out. Many countries use wind power to help light up homes and schools. But wind does not always blow, so wind power does not always work. Some people think the tall towers look funny on the land.
Whirlpool galaxy\n\nThe Whirlpool galaxy is a huge group of stars and dust in space. It looks like a big spinning pinwheel with long, curvy arms. A smaller galaxy is next to it, and they bump into each other. The Whirlpool was the first galaxy people saw that has spiral arms. It is very far away, so far that light takes many years to reach us. You can see it with binoculars if you look in the right part of the sky at night.
Borobudur\n\nBorobudur is a very old temple in Indonesia. It is made of gray stone and has many levels that go up like stairs. On top there is a big round dome. The temple has many stone pictures and statues of Buddha. Long ago people stopped using it, but later it was found again and fixed up. Now many people visit Borobudur to see how big and beautiful it is.
Island\n\nAn island is a piece of land with water all around it. The water can be a lake, a river, or the big ocean. Most islands are in the ocean. Some islands are very big, like Greenland. Other islands are small. People live on many islands. Some islands have mountains and trees. You can only get to an island by boat or airplane.
Atheism\n\nAtheism is when someone does not believe in a god or gods. A person who thinks this way is called an atheist. Some people believe in a god, and some people do not. Atheists think there is no proof that a god exists. In some places, it is not safe to say you are an atheist. In other places, atheists have the same rights as everyone else. About 2 out of every 100 people in the world say they are atheists.
Muse d'Orsay\n\nThe Muse d'Orsay is a big art museum in Paris, France. The building was first a train station a long time ago. In 1986, it became a museum. Inside, you can see many paintings from the 1800s. Some paintings show soft, blurry shapes and bright colors. These are called Impressionist paintings. Famous painters like Monet, Van Gogh, and Renoir made them. The museum also has statues, old furniture, and photographs. It is one of the most famous museums in the world.
Antarctic Peninsula\n\nThe Antarctic Peninsula is a long, icy piece of land that sticks out from Antarctica. It is the northernmost part of Antarctica and is very cold. Many scientists live there in special buildings called research stations. The ice on the peninsula is melting because the air is getting warmer.
Ammunition\n\nAmmunition is the stuff that goes inside a gun to make it shoot. It is also called ammo. A bullet is one kind of ammunition. When you put a bullet in a gun and pull the trigger, the gun shoots the bullet very fast. Ammunition can also be big things like bombs and missiles that soldiers use. Factories make ammunition for people to use.
Crop\n\nA crop is a plant that farmers grow. Most crops are food like grain, vegetables, or fruit. Some crops give us things to wear, like cotton, or things to use, like wood. Farmers often grow just one kind of crop on their farm. People have picked the best plants to grow so they taste good and are big. Growing crops is part of farming.
Electric power distribution\n\nElectric power distribution is how electricity gets to your house. The electricity starts at a big power station and travels through wires on tall poles. These wires are called power lines. A machine called a transformer makes the electricity safe to use at home. A meter shows how much electricity you use. Long ago, electricity could only go one way, but now it can go back and forth, which is better for sending it far away.
Krakatoa\n\nKrakatoa is a big mountain that shoots hot rocks and ash into the sky. It is on an island in Indonesia. A long time ago, in 1883, it made the loudest sound anyone has ever heard. People far away in Australia and Africa heard it too. The explosion made a giant wave that hurt many people. The mountain blew up and most of the island went away. Later, a new little island grew in the same place. It is called Anak Krakatau, which means baby Krakatoa.
Sequence\n\nA sequence is a list of things that come one after another in a special order. For example, (Blue, Red, Yellow) and (Yellow, Blue, Red) are different sequences because the order is different. Some sequences have an end, like (1, 2, 3, 4, 5). Other sequences never end, like 2, 4, 6, 8, ... which keeps going forever. You can also make a rule to find any number in the sequence. For instance, if the rule is "2 times n", then the first number is 2, the second is 4, and the 100th is 200.
Apple\n\nAn apple is a fruit that grows on trees. Apple trees are small and lose their leaves in winter. The fruit is round and can be red, green, or yellow. Apples taste sweet or sour. You can eat them raw or cook them to make apple pie or apple sauce. Apple juice and cider are drinks made from apples. Apples have seeds inside, but it is safe to eat a few seeds. People grow apples in many places around the world. China grows more apples than any other country.
Game\n\nA game is something people do for fun. It is different from work. There are many kinds of games. Some games use a board, like Ludo or Go. Some games use a ball, like soccer. Some games are on a screen, like video games. People play games with rules. Games can be played alone or with friends. Games are very old. Long ago, people played games with stones and bones. Today, people play games on computers and phones. Games help us learn and have fun together.
Laos\n\nLaos is a country in Southeast Asia. It is a landlocked country, which means it does not touch the ocean. Laos is next to Myanmar, China, Vietnam, Cambodia, and Thailand. The Mekong River runs along part of the border with Thailand. Boats cannot go all the way to the ocean because there are big waterfalls and fast water in the south. Laos has fewer people living in it than any other country in Southeast Asia. The capital city is Vientiane. Long ago, France ruled Laos. Then Laos became its own country. There was a war, and now the country is led by one group of people.
Rubber\n\nRubber is a stretchy material that can bounce and pull. It comes from the sap of some trees, like the rubber tree. People also make rubber in factories. Rubber can stretch and shrink, and it does not let electricity go through it. Many things are made from rubber, such as tires for cars and bikes, balls, gloves, and erasers. A long time ago, a man named Joseph Priestley found that rubber could rub out pencil marks on paper. That is why we call it an eraser.
Printing\n\nPrinting is a way to put words and pictures on paper using a machine. Books, newspapers, and magazines are made by printing. A machine called a printing press puts ink on paper to make many copies. Long ago, people wrote everything by hand, which took a very long time. Then someone made a machine that could print many copies quickly. This helped more people learn to read and share ideas. Today, printing is used to make books, signs, and even photographs.
Tractor\n\nA tractor is a big work vehicle that pulls things. Farmers use tractors to help on farms. Construction workers use them too. Tractors can pull trailers and other heavy loads. Most tractors have big wheels. Some tractors have rubber tracks instead of wheels. The tracks help the tractor move on soft or muddy ground without getting stuck. A tractor usually has a seat for just one person, the driver.
Great Plains\n\nThe Great Plains is a very big, flat piece of land in the middle of North America. It is covered with grass and has few trees. In the summer it is hot, and in the winter it is cold. Long ago, many bison lived there, and people ate them. Now, farmers grow food like wheat on the Great Plains.
Colombo\n\nColombo is a big city in Sri Lanka. It is the largest city in that country. Many people live there. It is on the west coast, near the capital city. The name Colombo comes from words that mean "harbor with leafy mango trees." A long time ago, a traveler called it "Kalanpu."
Gabon\n\nGabon is a country in Africa. It is on the equator, which is an imaginary line around the middle of the Earth. Gabon has rainforests that cover most of the land. Many trees and animals live there. The capital city is Libreville. About 2.3 million people live in Gabon. The country has a lot of metal and oil in the ground. People in Gabon speak French and other languages. Some people believe in spirits, and some follow religions like Christianity or Islam. The national football team plays soccer for the country.
Dog\n\nA dog is a furry animal with four legs and a tail. Many people keep dogs as pets at home. Dogs can also work on farms or help the police. Some dogs are trained to find people who are lost. Dogs were the first animals to live with people. They are playful, friendly, and loyal. A baby dog is called a puppy. Dogs eat meat and vegetables mixed together as dog food. Dogs can smell and hear very well, but they cannot see all colors. They see yellows, blues, and grays. Dogs come in many sizes, from very small like a Chihuahua to very big like a Great Dane. There are over 450 kinds of dogs. Dogs are often called "human's best friend" because they like being around people.
Temperate climate\n\nA temperate climate is a kind of weather that is not too hot and not too cold. Places with this climate have four seasons: spring, summer, fall, and winter. In summer it is warm, and in winter it is cold. The weather can change a lot from day to day. One day might be sunny, the next rainy, and then cloudy. This happens in both summer and winter.
Musical theater\n\nMusical theater is a show on a stage where people act, sing songs, and dance. A musical is a story told with music and words. Some musicals have people talking and singing, while others sing almost the whole time. Famous musicals include "The Sound of Music" and "West Side Story." Long ago, people in France and England made funny musical shows that helped create the musicals we see today.
Carp\n\nA carp is a fish that lives in rivers and lakes. In some places, people like to catch and eat carp. But in other places, carp are a problem because they stir up mud and make the water dirty. Some pretty fish like goldfish and koi are also kinds of carp.
Taoism\n\nTaoism is a way of thinking and believing that started in China a long, long time ago. It is about a special force called the Tao, which is like the way everything in the world works. Taoists think that words cannot really explain what the Tao is. Instead, they try to live a simple and quiet life, being happy with what they have and not fighting. They believe it is better to go along with things than to push against them. Taoists also think that nature is very important and that people should live in peace with the world around them. The yin and yang symbol is a famous sign of Taoism. It shows two opposite things, like light and dark, that need to be balanced. Some Taoists believe in gods and heaven, while others just focus on the Tao and the energy called Qi that moves through everything.
Grapefruit\n\nA grapefruit is a fruit that grows on trees. It is bigger than an orange and can be sour or sweet. Grapefruits can be red, white, or pink inside. The tree has dark green leaves and white flowers. Some people eat grapefruit for breakfast. But if you take medicine, you should ask a grown-up before eating grapefruit, because it can change how the medicine works.
Crossbow\n\nA crossbow is a special kind of bow that shoots short arrows called bolts. It has a piece of wood shaped like a cross. You pull the string back and lock it, then press a trigger to shoot. Crossbows are very strong and can shoot through armor. They were used long ago in wars. Today, people shoot crossbows for fun in sports.
Ramayana\n\nThe Ramayana is a very old story from India. It is about a prince named Rama and his wife Sita. Rama had to leave his home and go to the forest with Sita and his brother Lakshman. A bad king named Ravana took Sita away. Rama got help from a group of bears and monkey-like friends called vanaras. They fought a big battle to get Sita back. Rama won and saved his wife. People still tell this story today. Every year, they put on a play called Ramlila and burn a big model of Ravana to show that good wins over bad.
Electronic commerce\n\nElectronic commerce is when people buy and sell things using the internet. You can shop for toys, clothes, and many other things on a computer or phone. People pay with special cards or money from their bank. This way of shopping has grown a lot because many people use the internet. It started when banks used computers to move money around.
Horn of Africa\n\nThe Horn of Africa is a part of East Africa that sticks out into the ocean like a pointy finger. Four countries are there: Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia, and Djibouti. Many people live in this area, and it is very old. People have lived there for a very long time. The land is hot and dry in some places. Some animals that live there are camels, goats, and birds.
Gothic cathedrals\n\nGothic cathedrals are very big and beautiful churches. They were built a long, long time ago in Europe. The most special thing about them is the pointed arches. They also have tall windows with pretty stone designs called tracery. Some windows are round and look like a flower, called a rose window. The walls are held up by special supports called flying buttresses. Many of these cathedrals are still standing today. People think they are works of art that are very precious.
Great Lakes\n\nThe Great Lakes are five very big lakes in North America. They hold a lot of fresh water. The five lakes are Lake Superior, Lake Michigan, Lake Huron, Lake Erie, and Lake Ontario. Four of them are on the border between Canada and the United States. Lake Michigan is all inside the United States. These lakes are connected to each other by rivers. Water flows from one lake to the next and finally to the Atlantic Ocean. Many big cities are on the shores of the Great Lakes, like Chicago and Toronto. The lakes have many islands and smaller lakes around them. Many kinds of fish live in the Great Lakes. Some fish have been hurt by too much fishing and by new animals that came from other places. These new animals, like zebra mussels, can cause problems. Pollution from factories and cities also makes the water dirty sometimes.
Club (weapon)\n\nA club is a short, heavy stick used to hit things. It is usually made of wood. People can hold it in one hand. Some clubs are used by police officers. A club can hurt if it hits you.
Black hole\n\nA black hole is a place in space where gravity is so strong that nothing can get out, not even light. The outside edge of a black hole is called the event horizon. Once something goes past this edge, it cannot come back. Black holes are invisible, but scientists can find them by watching how stars and gas move nearby. When gas falls into a black hole, it spins around and gets very hot, making bright light. Most big black holes are found in the middle of galaxies. Our own galaxy has a huge black hole at its center called Sagittarius A*. Black holes form when very big stars die and fall in on themselves. They can also grow by eating gas, dust, and even other black holes.
Opinion poll\n\nAn opinion poll is a way to find out what many people think about something. People are asked to pick from a few answers. The answers are counted and turned into numbers. This helps us guess what a big group of people might think. The people chosen for the poll should be like the whole group, so the answer is fair.
Renewable energy\n\nRenewable energy comes from things in nature that do not run out, like the sun, wind, and water. People have used it for a very long time to make heat and electricity. The sun gives us solar power, which turns sunlight into electricity. Wind power uses big fans called wind turbines to make electricity. Water power, like from rivers, can also make electricity. These kinds of energy do not make the air dirty like burning coal or oil does. Many countries now use more and more renewable energy to help keep our planet clean.
Eiffel Tower\n\nThe Eiffel Tower is a very tall metal tower in Paris, France. It was built a long time ago for a big fair. Many people helped build it. The tower is made of iron and has four big legs. It is very tall and you can see it from far away. At night, it sparkles with many lights. People from all over the world go to see it and climb up to look at the city. The tower was almost taken down, but it was saved because it helped send messages through the air. Today, it is used for radio and TV.
Diplodocus\n\nDiplodocus is a very big dinosaur that lived a long, long time ago. It had a very long neck and a very long tail. Its neck was as long as a school bus, and its tail was even longer. Diplodocus ate leaves from trees. It used its long neck to reach leaves that were high up. Its body was so big that other dinosaurs could not hurt it. People have found bones of Diplodocus in the Rocky Mountains in North America. No one has ever found a whole tail.
Serengeti\n\nThe Serengeti is a big grassy place in Africa with lots of wild animals. It is in two countries: Tanzania and Kenya. Many animals live there, like wildebeests, zebras, gazelles, and lions. Every year, millions of animals walk across the Serengeti to find food and water. This is called the migration. They cross rivers and travel a long way. The Serengeti also has a big hole in the ground called Ngorongoro Crater, where many animals live. There is also a place called Olduvai Gorge where scientists found very old bones of people from long ago.
Felt\n\nFelt is a kind of cloth. It is made by pressing fibers together with water and soap, or by poking them with special needles. The fibers can be from sheep, fur, or man-made materials. People have made felt for a very long time, longer than any other cloth. Felt can be any color and any shape. It is used to make hats, clothes, rugs, and even tents. Some people who move from place to place live in tents made of felt. Felt is different from most other cloth because it does not have a criss-cross pattern. Instead, the fibers are all jumbled up.
Horn (instrument)\n\nA horn is a brass instrument that makes music. Long ago, people used horns made from animal horns for hunting. Riders on horses would blow the horn to send messages to each other. Later, horns were used in orchestras for plays about kings and queens. A horn player can change the sound by putting a hand inside the bell or by using valves. The modern horn has three valves and a long tube that is 6.4 meters long. It makes a warm, beautiful sound, but it is hard to play because the mouthpiece is small. Orchestras usually have two to eight horns.
Comics\n\nComics are stories told with pictures. Sometimes there are words too. The pictures are in boxes called panels. You read the first panel first. Comic strips are short comics in newspapers. Comic books are thin books of comics. Graphic novels are bigger books of comics. Long ago, comics were funny. "Comic" means funny. Now some comics are serious, but we still call them comics. In comics, words are in balloons. A speech balloon shows talking. A thought balloon shows thinking. A scream balloon shows yelling.
Butterfly\n\nA butterfly is an insect that flies during the day. It has four wings covered with tiny scales that make pretty colors and patterns. Butterflies live almost everywhere in the world. They start as eggs on a plant. The egg hatches into a caterpillar that eats leaves. Then the caterpillar makes a hard case called a chrysalis. Inside, it changes into a butterfly. When it comes out, it has wings and can fly. Butterflies drink sweet liquid from flowers using a long tube that coils up like a straw. They have big eyes that can see many things, and two feelers on their head for smelling and balance. Birds and other animals eat butterflies, so their bright colors help them hide or warn others that they taste bad.
Djembe\n\nA djembe is a drum from West Africa. It looks like a big cup. People play it with their hands. The body is made from a hollow tree trunk. The top is made of goatskin.
Loon\n\nA loon is a bird that lives on water. It is as big as a large duck or a small goose. Loons are hard to find because they are shy around people. They live in cool places in North America and northern parts of the world. In winter, they fly to the ocean. Loons can dive very deep underwater to catch fish. Their bodies are good for diving. They have solid bones and feet far back on their body to help them swim. Loons have black-and-white heads, pale chests, and striped backs. They lay up to two eggs. Both mom and dad take turns sitting on the eggs. When the weather gets cold, they fly south. Young loons stay south for three years before coming back north. Loons are famous for their loud calls that sound like trumpets. They also make wailing or laughing sounds. They talk to each other with sounds and dance on the water to warn others away from their nests. Loons are very protective of their eggs and will dance until they are very tired to keep them safe. They eat fish like sunfish, perch, and bullheads. Loons swallow their food whole because their throats can stretch big enough.
Adjective\n\nAn adjective is a word that tells you more about a thing. For example, in "a big dog," the word "big" is an adjective. It tells you what the dog is like. Adjectives can be short like "hot" or "cold." Sometimes we compare things. If one day is colder than another, we say it is "colder." That is the comparative form. The very coldest day is the "coldest." That is the superlative form. For longer words like "beautiful," we say "more beautiful" and "most beautiful." Adjectives help us make a clear picture in our minds.
Satellite television\n\nSatellite television is a way to watch TV shows using a big dish outside your house. The TV shows go up to a satellite in space, and the satellite sends them back down to your dish. Then the shows appear on your TV. Some people use satellite TV because they cannot get cable TV where they live. You often have to pay money to watch satellite TV.
Dallas\n\nDallas is a big city in Texas, a state in the United States. It is part of a group of cities called the Metroplex. Many people live there. Dallas has sports teams like the Dallas Cowboys for football, the Dallas Mavericks for basketball, and the Texas Rangers for baseball. The city was started a long time ago, in 1841. It has a big airport and many companies. Some sad things happened there, but now it is a busy place where people live and work.
Water pollution\n\nWater pollution is when dirty things get into rivers, lakes, and oceans. This makes the water not clean. Dirty water can come from houses, factories, and farms. When farmers put food on plants to help them grow, rain can wash that food into rivers. This makes the water bad for fish and other animals that live in the water. Sometimes the water turns green or brown instead of blue. People and animals should not drink dirty water because it can make them sick.
Culinary mustard\n\nCulinary mustard is a yellow or brown paste that people put on food. It comes from tiny seeds of the mustard plant. People grind the seeds and mix them with water or vinegar to make mustard. Some mustard is hot and some is not so hot. You can spread it on bread, hotdogs, or salad. Many restaurants give mustard in small packets.
Daylight saving time\n\nDaylight saving time is when people move their clocks forward by one hour in the spring and back in the fall. This happens in some countries during the summer months. The sun stays out longer in the evening, so people can play outside more after school or work. It helps stores because people shop after work. It can also make roads safer because there are fewer car accidents. Not all countries use daylight saving time. It is common in places like the United States, Canada, and Europe. Many phones and computers change the time by themselves.
Theft\n\nTheft is when someone takes something that does not belong to them. They do not ask if they can have it, and they do not give it back. A person who steals is called a thief. Stealing is not allowed almost everywhere. Some thieves take things because they want them for themselves. Other thieves take things to sell them for money. They might steal a car, a phone, or a toy. Sometimes thieves plan to steal, and sometimes they just grab something when no one is looking.
Kiribati\n\nKiribati is a country made of many tiny islands in the big Pacific Ocean. The islands are very flat and close to the water. Most people live on the Gilbert Islands. The capital is called South Tarawa. People in Kiribati grow food like coconuts, sweet potatoes, and breadfruit. They also catch fish to eat. The country used to be called the Gilbert Islands. Now it is called Kiribati. The ocean is getting higher, so some land is going under water. The government bought land on another island country called Fiji, so people can move there if they need to.
Humanitarianism\n\nHumanitarianism is being kind and helping other people. A humanitarian is someone who helps make life better for others, no matter what they look like, where they come from, or what they believe. It is like the story of the Good Samaritan who helped a poor man who was hurt. There are also special rules called international humanitarian laws that tell people how to help others who need it.
Bassoon\n\nThe bassoon is a big musical instrument that makes low sounds. It is part of the woodwind family, like a flute or clarinet. The bassoon has a double reed, which is two thin pieces that vibrate when you blow air through them. The instrument is long and made of wood, with many keys and holes. It is heavy, so players often sit on a strap that holds the bassoon up. The bassoon can play very low notes and also high notes. It sounds deep and dark in the low part, and can be sweet or funny in the middle part. A person who plays the bassoon is called a bassoonist. You might hear the bassoon in an orchestra, playing along with the cello or tuba. Sometimes it sounds like a grumpy old man, like in the story 'Peter and the Wolf' where it plays the grandfather's tune.
Fish as food\n\nFish is a food that people eat. Many kinds of fish are good to eat, like cod, salmon, and catfish. People cook fish in different ways: they can bake it, fry it, grill it, or steam it.
Research\n\nResearch is a way of looking for new information and learning new things. A person who does research is called a researcher. Researchers work in schools, for companies, or for the government. They do experiments, read books, and take notes to find answers. Research helps us understand the world better. Scientists use research to learn about animals, plants, and how things work. When researchers find something new, they write it down so other people can learn from it too.
Breed\n\nA breed is a kind of animal or plant that people have made on purpose. People choose which animals or plants have babies together to get a certain look or way of acting. For example, some dogs are big and some are small because they are different breeds. A person who does this is called a breeder. They help make sure the babies are healthy and strong.
Mole cricket\n\nA mole cricket is a bug that lives in the ground. It is about as long as your thumb. It has big eyes and front legs that look like little shovels. It uses those legs to dig tunnels in the dirt and to swim. Mole crickets eat roots, grass, worms, and other tiny bugs. Birds, rats, skunks, and raccoons like to eat mole crickets.
Education\n\nEducation is about learning new things and how to do things. It helps people learn skills and think about what they learn. Teachers help students find and use information. Education passes knowledge from grown-ups to children. There are different kinds of education. Formal education happens in school, like kindergarten, elementary school, and high school. Some people go to college or university to learn more. Non-formal education is for people who are not in school, like learning to read or get a job skill. Informal education is learning from parents or by reading books. A parent can teach a child to ride a bike. People can also learn by themselves from books or websites. Teachers use different ways to teach, like group work or giving rewards. Tests help teachers see what students know.
Goldfish\n\nA goldfish is a small fish that people keep in a tank or a pond. Goldfish can be many colors, but the most common kind is golden-orange. Some goldfish have fancy tails. A goldfish can grow to be as big as your hand, but most are smaller. They can live for a very long time, up to 30 years, if they have a big enough home. Goldfish need lots of space to swim and clean water to stay healthy. You should not touch a goldfish because it can hurt them. Goldfish are smart and can learn tricks, like swimming through a maze or kicking a small ball. They can remember things for many months. Goldfish eat special fish food, and sometimes they like to eat peas to help their tummy feel better.
Cumulonimbus cloud\n\nA cumulonimbus cloud is a very tall, big cloud that brings thunderstorms. It looks like a huge, dark tower in the sky. When you see one, there might be heavy rain, thunder, lightning, and strong wind. Sometimes it can even make a tornado. These clouds start as smaller, fluffy clouds and grow very big.
Korea\n\nKorea is a piece of land in northeast Asia that sticks out into the ocean. Long ago, Korea was one country. In 1948, it split into two countries: South Korea and North Korea. South Korea has big cities like Seoul, where many people live. North Korea has a big city called Pyongyang. People in Korea speak the Korean language. South Korea has fast trains and fast internet. Many people around the world watch Korean shows on TV. Korea is known for its fine silk. A long time ago, a king named Sejong made the Korean alphabet. Korea has a long history with many kingdoms. Today, the two Koreas are still separate.
Nomad\n\nA nomad is a person who moves from one place to another instead of staying in one home. Some nomads move because they have animals like cows or horses that need fresh grass to eat. They live in tents and carry only a few things. Other nomads travel to sell things or make things for people. Some nomads follow animals like reindeer as they move to find food. Long ago, some nomads were also good at fighting on horses and conquered many lands.
Arts\n\nArts are things people make to show ideas or feelings. There are many kinds of arts. Visual arts are things you can see, like paintings, sculptures, and buildings. Painting uses colors to make pictures. Sculpting uses rock, metal, or wood to make shapes. Architecture is the art of making buildings look nice. Performing arts are things people do, like dancing and singing. Literary arts are words, like stories and poems. Some arts are about the idea more than how it looks.
Winter Olympic Games\n\nThe Winter Olympic Games are a big sports party that happens every four years in the cold winter. People from many countries come to play sports on snow and ice. They race on skis and sleds, spin on ice skates, and slide on ice with heavy stones. The games are only for winter sports, so they happen in places with lots of snow and cold weather. The first Winter Olympic Games were a long time ago, and now they are separate from the Summer Olympic Games.
Manga\n\nManga is a kind of comic book that comes from Japan. A person who draws manga is called a mangaka. You read manga from right to left, which is different from most books. Manga can be about many things like adventures, animals, or funny stories. Sometimes manga is turned into a cartoon show called anime. The pictures in manga use bright colors and special symbols to show feelings.
Ellipse\n\nAn ellipse is a shape that looks like an oval or a squished circle. You can make one with two pins and a string. Put the pins in a piece of cardboard, loop a string around them, and pull a pencil tight around the string. The pencil draws an ellipse. Planets move around the sun in an ellipse shape. A circle is a special kind of ellipse.
Curiosity\n\nCuriosity is a feeling that makes you want to learn new things. It makes you ask questions and explore. People and many animals, like cats and dogs, feel curious. Curiosity helps scientists discover new things. Sometimes people feel curious about scary things, but that is not always safe.
University\n\nA university is a big school where older kids go to learn after they finish regular school. At a university, students take many classes about one special thing, like animals or numbers. They can earn a degree, which is like a special paper that says they know a lot about that thing. Universities have teachers called professors, and they also have big rooms full of books called libraries. Some students live at the university in buildings called dormitories. The first universities were started a very long time ago in Europe.
Greece\n\nGreece is a country in Europe. Its capital city is Athens. Greece has many mountains and islands. The sea is all around it. Long ago, the people in Greece started democracy, which means people vote for their leaders. They also started the Olympic Games. Many people visit Greece to see old buildings and swim in the sea. The language people speak there is called Greek. Greece is a Christian country. It uses money called the euro.
Chad\n\nChad is a country in the middle of Africa. It is far from the ocean and very hot and dry. The capital city is N'Djamena. Many people in Chad are very poor and do not have enough food. The country has big deserts and some rivers. Many wild animals live there, like elephants, lions, and giraffes. People in Chad speak Arabic and French. Most children do not go to school.
Mural\n\nA mural is a big painting on a wall or ceiling. You can see murals outside on buildings or inside rooms. They are very large and show pictures like people, animals, or pretty designs. Many people work together to make a mural.
Reality\n\nReality is everything that is real. It means things that really exist and have happened. The chair you sit on is real. The food you eat is real. Dreams are not real because they happen only in your mind. Make-believe stories are not real either. But some things are hard to see, like love or being fair, and they are still part of reality. Some TV shows show real people doing real things, and those are called reality TV.
Reincarnation\n\nReincarnation is the idea that after people die, they are born again in a new body. Many people who follow religions like Hinduism and Buddhism believe this. They think the soul, which is the part of you that is alive inside, never dies. It just goes into a new body, like a baby, and lives another life. This happens many times. What you do in each life, called karma, helps decide what your next life will be like. Some children say things about a life they had before they were born. A few of them even have marks on their body that match where someone else got hurt.
Keyboard (computer)\n\nA computer keyboard is a flat board with many buttons called keys. You press the keys to tell the computer what letters, numbers, or symbols to show on the screen. This is called typing. Keyboards can be connected to a computer with a wire or without a wire. Some keyboards are part of a laptop and have thin keys. Other keyboards have keys that move a lot, like mechanical keyboards, which some people like for playing games. The most common keyboard layout is called QWERTY, named after the first six letters on the top row. Keyboards can have different numbers of rows, and some have special keys like Shift or Ctrl to do different things. Using a keyboard for a long time can hurt your hands, so it is good to take breaks.
Mountain biking\n\nMountain biking is a sport where you ride a special bike on bumpy, rough ground outside. The bike is strong and has thick tires to handle rocks and dirt. Riders wear a helmet, gloves, and knee pads to stay safe. You need to be strong and have good balance. You can ride on trails in the woods or on hills. The bike has many gears to help you go up or down. You must use the brakes carefully when going downhill. Mountain biking is fun, but you should not hurt the plants or animals around you.
Fig\n\nA fig is a soft, sweet fruit with a thin skin and many tiny seeds inside. Figs grow on fig trees in warm places. You can eat them when they are ripe or dried. Sometimes people make fig jam. Figs are also in some snacks. A fig is made from many tiny flowers that grow together inside. You cannot see the flowers unless you cut the fig open. Figs have vitamins and sugar. But the sap from the fig tree can hurt your eyes and skin. Tiny wasps help figs grow by going inside to lay eggs. The wasp dies and gets broken down, so you do not eat it. People have grown figs for a very long time.
Luge\n\nLuge is a fast winter sport. A person lies on their back on a small sled and goes down a long, icy track very fast. The sled has no brakes, so the person uses their body to steer. Luge is like bobsleigh but faster. It is a sport in the Winter Olympics.
Pie\n\nA pie is a baked food with a crust made from dough. The crust can hold sweet or salty fillings inside. Sweet pies have fruit, chocolate, or custard. Salty pies have meat, vegetables, and gravy. Pies can be round or oval. You can eat a pie warm or cold. Some pies are small snacks, and some are big enough for many people. People in different countries make their own kinds of pie. In America, apple pie is a favorite. In Britain, meat pies are popular. Sometimes people throw pies at each other for fun in movies.
Ancient Rome\n\nAncient Rome was a very big and important place a long time ago. It started as a small town in Italy. The people of Rome, called Romans, built a huge empire that covered many lands, from Britain to Africa. They spoke a language called Latin. The Romans made strong roads, big buildings, and good laws. They had many gods, like Jupiter and Juno. Later, many Romans became Christians. The Roman Empire ended a long time ago, but its ideas about laws and buildings are still used today.
Public transport\n\nPublic transport is a way for many people to travel together without needing their own car. Buses, trains, trams, and trolleybuses are types of public transport. People use buses to go places near their home and trains to go far away. You need a ticket or a card to ride. A timetable tells you when the bus or train will come. Public transport is good for the Earth because fewer cars make less dirty air. It is also cheap, so even people with cars sometimes use it.
Driving\n\nDriving is moving a car, truck, bus, or bike from one place to another. People who drive must follow the rules of the road. They stop at red lights and go when the light is green. A long time ago, people drove horses instead of cars. Now, many people drive cars to go to work, school, or the store.
Army\n\nThe army is a big group of people who protect their country on the ground. People in the army are called soldiers. Soldiers use things like tanks, airplanes, and helicopters to help them. Some soldiers choose to join the army, and others are made to join. Soldiers do many jobs, like guarding places, searching, or fighting. They always work together and follow orders. Before someone can be a soldier, they must pass hard tests. Soldiers have special clothes and tools, like guns and food, to help them do their job.
Magellanic Clouds\n\nThe Magellanic Clouds are two groups of stars in the sky. They are not round like our Milky Way. They look like two small, fuzzy clouds. You can only see them from the southern part of Earth. They are far away in space. They go around our Milky Way like friends. Each cloud has many stars, but not as many as our galaxy. You can see them without a telescope on a dark night. They look like pieces of the Milky Way that broke off. One cloud is bigger than the other. The bigger one is called the Large Magellanic Cloud. The smaller one is called the Small Magellanic Cloud. A long time ago, people from Europe saw them for the first time. They named them after a sailor named Magellan. The clouds have lots of gas and young stars. A very bright star explosion happened in the Large Cloud in 1987. People on Earth could see it with their eyes.
Prosthesis\n\nA prosthesis is a fake body part made to replace one that is missing. Some people are born without a body part, and others lose one in an accident or because they were sick. Long ago, prostheses were made of wood, like a wooden leg. Now they are made of light, strong materials. A prosthesis has three main parts: the socket that fits onto the body, the way it stays on (like straps or suction), and how it moves. Some prostheses are special for sports. For example, a skier might have a leg that works like an ankle for skiing. A climber might have an arm with a pick for climbing. Some runners use special blades that look like springs. Scientists are working on prostheses that can be moved by thinking.
Bermuda\n\nBermuda is a group of islands in the Atlantic Ocean. It is a British territory. The biggest island is called Main Island. The capital city is Hamilton. Bermuda has pink sand beaches and clear blue water. Many people visit Bermuda for vacation. The weather is warm in winter and hot in summer. Rain is the only fresh water, so people collect it on their roofs and store it in tanks. Bermuda has bats, a bird called the Bermuda Petrel, and a lizard called the Bermuda Rock Skink. You cannot rent a car there, but you can ride a motor scooter or take a bus.
Aubergine\n\nAn aubergine is a plant that grows a fruit we eat like a vegetable. It is also called eggplant. It is related to the potato and tomato. Aubergines come from India and Sri Lanka. They are usually purple and have a shiny skin. People cook them in many dishes.
Electric motor\n\nAn electric motor is a machine that uses magnets and electricity to make things spin. It changes electricity into movement. Inside, there are magnets that push and pull each other. When you turn on the motor, the pushing and pulling makes a part spin around. This spinning can make a fan blow air, a washing machine wash clothes, or a vacuum cleaner suck up dirt. The first electric motor was made a long time ago by a man named Michael Faraday. He used a nail with wire wrapped around it and a battery to make it spin.
Artemis\n\nArtemis is a Greek goddess. She is the goddess of the Moon, hunting, wild animals, and forests. She is the daughter of Zeus and Leto, and the twin sister of Apollo. Artemis is shown as a beautiful huntress with a bow and arrow. Her sacred animal is the deer. She helped her mother give birth to Apollo. One time, a man named Acteon saw her bathing, and she turned him into a deer. Artemis is also called Diana by the Romans.
Comic book\n\nA comic book is a book with pictures that tell a story. The pictures are just as important as the words. Some comic books have superheroes like Superman, Batman, and Spider-Man. These superheroes fight bad guys and save people. Comic books can also be about other things, like funny animals or adventures. People read comic books for fun. Some comic books come from America, and some come from Japan or Korea.
Marshall Islands\n\nThe Marshall Islands is a country made of many small islands in the big Pacific Ocean. About 58,000 people live there. The capital city is called Majuro. People there speak Marshallese and English. Some people from the Marshall Islands now live in a place called Arkansas in the United States. They have parties with dancing, food, and games like volleyball and basketball to remember their home.
Large intestine\n\nThe large intestine is a long tube inside your belly. It is also called the colon. It connects the small intestine to the place where poop comes out. The large intestine is about as long as a tall kid. It is shorter than the small intestine but wider. Water from the food you eat gets soaked up here. The leftover stuff turns into poop and stays there until you go to the bathroom.
Fluorescence\n\nFluorescence is a special kind of light. Some things can soak up light and then give off a different light. When you turn off the light that shines on them, they stop glowing. Some rocks and toys can do this. They can take in light you cannot see, like the light from a black light, and then glow in colors you can see. Scientists use this to find tiny things in their work.
Falcon\n\nA falcon is a bird that hunts other animals for food. It has pointed wings and a long tail. Most falcons have dark gray or brown backs and white bellies. They eat small animals like mice and other birds. The peregrine falcon can dive very fast to catch birds in the air. Some people train falcons to hunt for them, which is called falconry. Long ago, people did this to get food, but now it is a sport. One kind of falcon, called Eleonora's falcon, sometimes traps small birds in cracks in rocks to save them for later.
Alpha Centauri\n\nAlpha Centauri is a group of stars that are the closest stars to our Sun. There are three stars in this group. Two of them are big and bright, and one is smaller and dimmer. The two big stars look like one star when you look at them from far away. The small star is called Proxima Centauri. It is a little closer to us than the other two. People want to send a spaceship to Alpha Centauri one day, but it would take a very long time to get there.
Orchestra\n\nAn orchestra is a big group of people who play music together. Each person plays a different instrument. Some play violins, some play flutes, and some play drums. A person called a conductor stands in front and waves a stick to help everyone play at the same time. The orchestra has four families of instruments: strings, woodwinds, brass, and percussion. The strings are violins, violas, cellos, and basses. The woodwinds are flutes, oboes, clarinets, and bassoons. The brass are trumpets, trombones, French horns, and tubas. The percussion are drums, cymbals, and other things you hit. All these instruments play together to make beautiful music.
Visual arts\n\nVisual arts are art that you can see. They make things like drawings, paintings, and sculptures. You can also make art with clay, cameras, or computers. Some art is for looking at, and some art is for using, like pretty dishes or clothes.
Kickboxing\n\nKickboxing is a sport where people use their hands and feet to hit. It is like boxing, but you can also kick. People do kickboxing to stay healthy or to fight in a ring. There are different kinds of kickboxing. In most kinds, you can punch and kick above the waist. You can also kick the legs. Fighters wear gloves, mouth guards, and pants. Some famous kickboxers are Benny Urquidez and Andrew Tate.
Micronesia\n\nMicronesia is a place in the ocean with many small islands. The name means "small islands" in an old language. The islands are in the Pacific Ocean, near the Philippines and Indonesia. Many of the islands are ring-shaped and made of coral. Each island has a leader called a chief. The chief listens to a group of helpers. Everyone belongs to a big family group. Families are spread across many islands. People share things so everyone has enough. In some islands, some people are richer than others.
Terrestrial planet\n\nA terrestrial planet is a rocky planet. Earth is one, and so are Mercury, Venus, and Mars. These planets are made of rock and metal. They have a hard outer shell called the crust, a middle part called the mantle, and a center called the core. The core is mostly made of iron. Terrestrial planets can have mountains, volcanoes, and big holes called craters. Some are very hot and some are very cold. The Moon is also rocky, but it is not a planet.
Kiwi\n\nThe kiwi is a bird from New Zealand. It has a long beak and brown feathers that look like fur. Kiwis cannot fly because their wings are very small. They cannot see well, but they can hear very well. Kiwis are awake at night and sleep during the day. They eat worms and bugs. Kiwis live alone or with their mate in a special area called a territory. They dig burrows in the ground or under tree roots to sleep and lay eggs. The female kiwi lays very big eggs, almost as big as herself. The eggs take a long time to hatch. Kiwis can live for more than 20 years. People from New Zealand are sometimes called Kiwis.
Cuckoo\n\nA cuckoo is a bird that makes a sound like "cu-ckoo." The male cuckoo sings this song. The female cuckoo does not build a nest or take care of her babies. Instead, she lays her egg in another bird's nest. She watches the other bird's nest and waits for the right time. Then she quickly puts her egg in the nest and flies away. The other bird does not notice and takes care of the cuckoo egg. When the baby cuckoo hatches, it grows very fast. It pushes the other eggs or baby birds out of the nest. The baby cuckoo is much bigger than the other bird. It makes a loud cheeping sound, so the other bird thinks it has many babies to feed. The cuckoo eats hairy caterpillars. It has a long tail and looks a little like a hawk when it flies. The cuckoo lives in Europe and Asia in the summer and goes to Africa in the winter.
Extraversion and introversion\n\nExtraversion and introversion are two ways to describe how people feel. Extraverts like to be with other people and feel happy when they play or talk with friends. Introverts like to be alone or with just one friend, and they feel tired after being around lots of people. Everyone is a little bit of both, but some people are more one way. Being an introvert is not the same as being shy. Shy people feel scared around others, but introverts just like quiet time.
Kamchatka Peninsula\n\nThe Kamchatka Peninsula is a long piece of land in eastern Russia. It sits between two big bodies of water: the Pacific Ocean and the Sea of Okhotsk. The peninsula has many volcanoes that are special and protected by the world.
Rat\n\nA rat is a medium-sized animal with a long tail. Rats eat many kinds of food. They are bigger than mice. Some rats live in cities and sewers. People keep some rats as pets, called fancy rats. Pet rats are smart and can learn tricks. They like to play with toys. Pet rats live 1 to 3 years. Wild rats usually live less than one year. Rats can be brown, black, or white. Some rats have no hair. Rats have helped scientists learn about diseases and how the brain works.
Diary\n\nA diary is a book where you write about things you have seen, heard, or done. People keep diaries to remember what happened in their lives. Some people write in a diary every day. Children in school sometimes write a diary to tell about their day and how they feel. A diary can be a small book where you write down things you need to do, like going to the doctor or meeting a friend. Long ago, a man named Samuel Pepys wrote a diary about the big fire in London. A girl named Anne Frank wrote a diary while she was hiding. Today, some people write a diary on the computer, and it is called a blog.
Computer data storage\n\nComputer data storage is where a computer keeps information. There are different kinds of storage. Some storage is very fast but can only hold a little bit of data. This kind needs electricity to keep the data safe. Other storage is slower but can hold a lot of data, like a hard drive or a USB stick. Some storage is very slow and holds even more data, like a tape drive. The computer uses the fast storage for things it is working on right now, and the slow storage for saving things for later.
News\n\nNews is when people talk about things that are happening right now. You can see news on TV, hear it on the radio, or read it in a newspaper or magazine. News tells you about many things like sports, weather, school, and fun events. Some TV channels show news all day long. A person who helps with the news is called a newsman.
Disability\n\nA disability is something about a person that makes some things harder for them. Some people are born with a disability. Some people get a disability from an accident or sickness. A disability can be about how a person moves, thinks, learns, or feels. Some disabilities are easy to see, and some are not. People with disabilities may use special tools to help them, like a wheelchair, a hearing aid, or a computer that talks. Places can have ramps and wide doors to make it easier for everyone to get around. It is not nice to be mean to someone because of a disability. Everyone should be treated kindly.
Constitution\n\nA constitution is a special paper that tells how a country works. It says who the leaders are, how they are chosen, and how long they stay. It also says what rules people must follow and what rights they have. Some countries have one big paper for their constitution. The United States has a short one. India has the longest one. The United Kingdom does not have one single paper; its rules are written in many old papers and in what judges have decided over a long time.
Writing system\n\nA writing system is a way to write down words using special marks. Different places use different marks. English uses the ABCs, which are called the Latin alphabet. Some writing systems use marks for whole words, like Chinese. Others use marks for sounds. Some writing goes from left to right, like English. Some goes from right to left, like Arabic. Some writing goes up and down, like Japanese.
Owl\n\nAn owl is a bird that hunts at night. It has a big head, a flat face, and big eyes that look forward. Owls can turn their heads almost all the way around. They have soft feathers that help them fly without making noise. Owls eat small animals like mice and bugs. They live in many places around the world, but not in very cold places like Antarctica. Some owls are brown, gray, or white with spots. They have sharp claws and a hooked beak to catch food. Owls can hear very well and see far away, but they cannot see things close to their eyes. After eating, owls spit out the parts they cannot digest, like bones and fur.
Waterfall\n\nA waterfall is a place where water falls down a big rock. The water comes from a river and drops from high land to low land. The sound of a big waterfall is very loud. Many people think waterfalls are beautiful. The highest waterfall in the world is Angel Falls.
Cauliflower\n\nCauliflower is a white vegetable that looks like a big flower. It is a kind of cabbage. You can eat it raw, cooked, or pickled. People in Poland like to eat it in soup with cream or fried with bread crumbs. Cauliflower is good for you and helps you grow strong.
Valve\n\nA valve is a part that can stop or let water, air, or other stuff move through a pipe. You can turn a handle to open or close it. Some valves work by themselves. There are many kinds of valves.
Carpathian Mountains\n\nThe Carpathian Mountains are a long chain of big, tall hills in Europe. They go through many countries like Romania, Poland, and Ukraine. The mountains make a big curve like a smile. Some parts are very high and covered with snow. People go there to hike and see the pretty trees and animals.
Medication\n\nMedication is something you take when you are sick to help you get better. It is also called medicine. Some medicines you can buy at the store without a note from a doctor. Those are called over-the-counter medicines. Other medicines are very strong, and a doctor must give you a note called a prescription to get them. Medicine can come as a pill you swallow or as a liquid you drink. Sometimes a doctor gives medicine through a tiny needle into a vein, and that works very fast. You must take the right amount of medicine. Taking too much can make you very sick. That is called an overdose. Medicine can also cause side effects, which are things you did not want, like feeling sick to your stomach. But not everyone gets side effects. Different companies give the same medicine different names. For example, one medicine might be called Tylenol by one company and Panadol by another, but it is the same thing.
Bankruptcy\n\nBankruptcy is a special court process for when a person or a company has no money left to pay what they owe. The court picks someone to take the things they own and sell them to get money to pay back some of what is owed. After that, the person is free from those debts, but it can be hard to borrow money again. Sometimes a company that goes bankrupt has to close, and people lose their jobs. There are different kinds of bankruptcy in the United States, like Chapter 7 where things are sold, and Chapter 13 where the person pays back some money over a few years.
Ice pellets\n\nIce pellets are tiny balls of ice that fall from the sky. They are a kind of frozen rain. Sometimes they bounce when they hit the ground. Big ice pellets are called hailstones.
Cypress\n\nA cypress is a kind of tree that stays green all year long. It has leaves that look like needles and small cones that hold seeds. Many cypress trees grow tall and strong. They can live for a very long time, even many hundreds of years. You can find cypress trees in warm places near water or in parks.
Plumbing\n\nPlumbing is the job of putting pipes in a building to bring clean water in and take dirty water out. A plumber is a person who fixes or puts in these pipes. Pipes can be made of metal or plastic. Long ago, people used pipes made of clay or stone. Today, pipes are made of copper or plastic because they are safe. Toilets, sinks, and bathtubs are parts of plumbing. They let us wash our hands and get rid of waste. Plumbers make sure the water comes out of the faucet and the dirty water goes away.
Tag\n\nA tag is a small label. It can be a piece of paper or plastic that you put on something to say what it is. Some tags are electronic and can be read by a machine. People also use the word tag for a name or mark they write on a wall.
Pi\n\nPi is a special number that helps us measure circles. If you take the distance around a circle (called the circumference) and divide it by the distance across the circle (called the diameter), you always get the same number: pi. Pi starts with 3.14 and then keeps going with more and more numbers forever, never stopping or repeating. That is why we call it an irrational number. People use pi to find out how far it is around a circle or how much space is inside a circle. Many people celebrate Pi Day on March 14, because 3-14 looks like the first three numbers of pi. Some people even have contests to see who can remember the most digits of pi!
Mandarin orange\n\nA mandarin orange is a small fruit that looks like an orange. It has a thin skin that is easy to peel with your fingers. You can pull it apart into little pieces without making a mess. Mandarin oranges taste sweet and are good for you because they have vitamin C. People eat them plain or in fruit salads. You can also buy them in cans. During Chinese New Year, people give mandarin oranges as gifts because they are a sign of good luck.
Thoroughbred\n\nA thoroughbred is a kind of horse. People use thoroughbreds mostly for racing because they can run very fast. They are tall and have long legs. A thoroughbred can be brown, red-brown, black, or gray. All thoroughbreds come from three special father horses that lived a long time ago. Thoroughbreds are also good at jumping. They can be a little bit jumpy, but they learn quickly and are loyal to their people.
Tiger\n\nA tiger is a big wild cat with orange fur and black stripes. It lives in Asia. Tigers are very strong and hunt for their food. They eat deer, pigs, and other animals. Most tigers have orange fur with black stripes and a white belly. No two tigers have the same stripes. Some tigers have white fur with black stripes. Tigers live alone and need a big area to hunt. They like to be near water and places where they can hide. Tigers are becoming rare because people hunt them and take away their homes. Many tigers live in zoos to keep them safe.
Timor\n\nTimor is a big island in the ocean. It is near the Timor Sea. Part of the island is a country called East Timor. The other part belongs to another country called Indonesia. The name Timor means "east" in a language from far away.
Ice\n\nIce is frozen water. When water gets very cold, it turns into hard ice. Ice is cold and slippery. You can make ice at home by putting water in the freezer. Ice floats on top of water because it is lighter. Big pieces of ice on land are called glaciers. Ice can break rocks and pipes when it freezes and gets bigger. There is also dry ice, which is frozen air that makes fog.
Bulgaria\n\nBulgaria is a country in Europe. It is near the Black Sea. The biggest city is Sofia. People in Bulgaria speak Bulgarian. Their money is called lev. Bulgaria is part of the European Union. The country has mountains and beaches. Many people live in cities and towns. Some people are farmers. Bulgaria has a long history with many different rulers.
Hiroshima\n\nHiroshima is a big city in Japan. About one million people live there. A long time ago, during a war, a very big bomb fell on Hiroshima. The bomb was called "Little Boy." It hurt many people and broke many buildings. One building that did not fall down is still there and is called the Atomic Bomb Dome. Near Hiroshima is a small island called Miyajima. Deer live on that island. There is an old shrine made of red wood. The shrine has a big gate that goes into the water when the tide comes in. Today, the shrine and the Atomic Bomb Dome are special places that people visit.
Picture\n\nA picture is a flat thing you can look at that shows something else. It can be a drawing, a painting, or a photograph. People who make pictures are called artists or photographers. Pictures help us remember things and learn new things. Some pictures are made with paint and brushes, and some are made with cameras. A camera makes a picture that looks very real. Pictures can be on paper, on walls, or even on glass. When many pictures are shown very fast, they make a moving picture called a movie. Some pictures show what is inside something, like a cutaway picture.
Bulbul\n\nA bulbul is a small bird that sings. Bulbuls live in Africa, the Middle East, and southern Asia. There are many kinds of bulbuls. Some live in forests, and some live in open places. They make pretty sounds with their voices.
Psychology\n\nPsychology is the study of the mind and brain. It looks at how people think, feel, and act. A person who studies psychology is called a psychologist. Psychologists try to understand how the mind works so they can help people. They ask questions and do experiments to learn more. Some psychologists talk to people about their feelings. Others watch how people behave. Psychology helps us understand why we do the things we do.
Talk show\n\nA talk show is a TV or radio show where a host talks with guests. The host asks questions and the guests answer. Sometimes people at home can call in and talk too. Talk shows can be funny or serious. Some talk shows have famous people like actors or singers. Other talk shows have experts who know a lot about one thing. The host might be a famous person or become famous because of the show. People watch talk shows to learn new things or just to have fun.
Snooker\n\nSnooker is a game played on a big table with a green cloth. Two players use long thin sticks to hit a white ball. They try to knock colored balls into holes on the table. There are red balls worth one point, and other balls worth more points. The player who gets the most points wins. People in the United Kingdom and other places like to watch snooker on TV.
Northern pike\n\nA northern pike is a big fish that lives in fresh water like lakes and rivers. It has a long body and many sharp teeth. Its body is dark with light spots on the sides. Northern pike like cold water and live in deep lakes. They hide near weeds and fallen logs in shallow water. They eat other fish and can swim very fast to catch them. People like to catch northern pike for fun.
Tornado\n\nA tornado is a very fast spinning wind that comes from a big storm and touches the ground. It looks like a big, dark funnel coming down from the sky. Tornadoes can be very dangerous because they can blow away houses, cars, and trees. Most tornadoes happen in the United States, in a place called Tornado Alley. The wind inside a tornado can go very fast, sometimes as fast as a race car. When a tornado is coming, you should go to a safe place like a basement or a small room without windows. You should never stay in a car or a mobile home during a tornado.
Microphone\n\nA microphone is a tool that changes sound into a little bit of electricity. It catches your voice or music and sends it to a speaker or a computer. You can see microphones in telephones, on TV, and in recording studios. Some microphones have a special screen called a pop filter that stops popping sounds from your mouth. The first microphones were used in telephones a long time ago.
Cereal\n\nCereal is a food made from grains like wheat or corn. Many people eat it for breakfast with milk. Some cereals are sweet with sugar or fruit. Long ago, people ate meat for breakfast instead of cereal. The first cereal was called Granula, and it was very hard. You had to soak it in water all night before you could eat it. Today, cereal comes in boxes and is easy to eat.
Nile\n\nThe Nile is a very long river in Africa. It is the longest river on Earth. The Nile starts in a big lake called Lake Victoria and flows all the way to the Mediterranean Sea. Many boats travel on the Nile because it is an easy way to get around. People in Egypt use the water from the Nile to grow food. Long ago, the Nile flooded every year and helped the crops grow. The ancient Egyptians used a plant called papyrus from the Nile to make paper. Many animals live in or near the Nile, like crocodiles, birds, and fish. The pyramids in Egypt were built close to the Nile so big stones could be moved on the river.
Oral hygiene\n\nOral hygiene means keeping your mouth clean and healthy. You do this by brushing your teeth every day. Brushing helps stop bad breath and keeps your teeth strong. You can also rinse your mouth with salt water. Salt water kills tiny germs and helps your gums feel better. Doing these things every day keeps your mouth happy and healthy.
Bell\n\nA bell is a thing that makes a ringing sound. Most bells are made of metal. Many churches have bells that ring to tell people the time. Ships also have a bell. Alarm bells ring to warn people about danger. Some bells are in tall towers and ring every hour.
Mojave Desert\n\nThe Mojave Desert is a very dry, sandy place in the United States. It is in parts of California, Nevada, and Arizona. Some plants that live there are the Joshua tree, the creosote bush, and the silver cholla. These plants do not need much water. The desert is very hot, and it has Death Valley, where the hottest temperature ever was recorded.
Spider\n\nA spider is a small animal with eight legs. Spiders live almost everywhere in the world, except in very cold places like Antarctica. Most spiders eat bugs like flies. They catch bugs in different ways. Some spiders make a sticky web to trap bugs. Some spiders hide and jump on bugs. Others throw a silk thread at bugs. Spiders have two body parts and eight eyes. Their fangs are like tiny needles that put poison into bugs to kill them. Some spiders are very small, and some are big like tarantulas. Baby spiders are called spiderlings.
Golden Rule\n\nThe Golden Rule is a simple idea: treat other people the way you want them to treat you. If you like it when someone shares a toy with you, then you should share your toys too. If you do not like it when someone is mean to you, then you should not be mean to others. Many people around the world follow this rule. It is called 'golden' because it is very important and good. Some people learn it from their religion, and some learn it from their family. The rule helps everyone get along and be kind to each other.
Poetry\n\nPoetry is a way of using words that sounds like music. Poems can be spoken, sung, or written down. They often have words that rhyme and a beat that you can tap your foot to. Some poems are very short, like a few words, and some are as long as a whole book. People write poems about many things, like animals, feelings, or fun stories. A poem is made of lines, and groups of lines are called stanzas. There are many kinds of poems, like nursery rhymes and haikus.
Burkina Faso\n\nBurkina Faso is a country in West Africa. It is next to Mali, Niger, Benin, Togo, Ghana, and Côte d'Ivoire. The country does not touch any ocean. The capital is Ouagadougou. People from Burkina Faso are called Burkinabè. The country used to be called Upper Volta. In 1984, the name changed to Burkina Faso, which means "land of honest people." Burkina Faso is mostly flat. It has a hot climate with a rainy season and a dry season. In the dry season, a hot wind called the harmattan blows. The country has two national parks where animals and plants are protected.
Season\n\nA season is a part of the year. Many places have four seasons: spring, summer, fall, and winter. Spring is when flowers start to grow. Summer is the warmest time, with long sunny days. Fall is when leaves change color and fall off trees. Winter is the coldest time, with short days and sometimes snow. Some warm places have only two seasons: a wet season and a dry season. The wet season has lots of rain, and the dry season has very little rain. Seasons change because the Earth tilts as it goes around the sun.
Dynamite\n\nDynamite is a thing that can make a big bang. A man named Alfred Nobel made it a long time ago. Dynamite has a special liquid inside that can explode very easily. To make it safer, the liquid is mixed with a soft rock powder. But water can make the liquid leak out, which is dangerous. Today, people do not use dynamite much because there are safer things to use. But you still see dynamite in cartoons and movies.
Ivory Coast\n\nIvory Coast is a country in West Africa. It is near the ocean called the Gulf of Guinea. The biggest city is Abidjan. The capital city is Yamoussoukro. Ivory Coast has five neighbor countries: Liberia, Guinea, Mali, Burkina Faso, and Ghana. The country is split into 12 parts called districts.
Roma people\n\nThe Roma are a group of people who travel and live in many countries. They first came from India a long, long time ago. Then they moved to Europe. Roma people have their own music and like to play guitars and violins. They also have special dances. Many Roma families travel in big wagons with all their things. Some Roma people have a dark spot on their skin when they are born, like some babies in Asia. Today, many Roma live in Eastern Europe. They have their own language and special holidays.
Poverty\n\nPoverty is when people do not have enough money for things they need, like food, water, and a place to live. Many people in some parts of the world live in poverty. Some people have to live on very little money each day. People who have a job but still cannot buy what they need are called the working poor. One way to help is to teach poor people new things so they can get better jobs and help their country grow.
Viola\n\nA viola is a musical instrument that looks like a violin but is a little bigger. It has four strings and makes a lower, deeper sound than a violin. You play it with a bow in your right hand, or you can pluck the strings with your fingers. People sometimes think a viola is a violin because they look almost the same. But the viola's sound is darker and more mellow. The viola is part of a group of instruments called an orchestra. It often plays harmony notes, which are the notes that go along with the main tune. A person who makes violas is called a luthier.
Provence\n\nProvence is a place in the south of France. It is near the big river Rhône and the country of Italy. The biggest city there is Marseille. Other cities are Nice, Avignon, and Aix-en-Provence. The sun shines a lot in Provence, and there are pretty fields of flowers and old stone houses.
Cardiology\n\nCardiology is a kind of doctor work that helps your heart and the tubes that carry blood. The doctors who do this work are called cardiologists. They check if your heart is beating the right way and if blood is moving well. They are not the same as heart surgeons, who fix the heart with tools in a special room.
Spice\n\nA spice is something you put in food to make it taste good. Spices can be sweet or strong, like cinnamon or nutmeg. Some people use spices to make food taste exciting. In India, people use many spices together, like garam masala.
Haddock\n\nA haddock is a fish that lives in the salty ocean. It has fins and a tail to help it swim. Haddock live in the North Atlantic Ocean and nearby seas. People catch haddock for food. You can eat it fresh, frozen, or smoked. Some smoked haddock is called Finnan haddie or Arbroath smokie.
Earth's inner core\n\nThe inner core is the very middle of the Earth. It is the hottest part of our planet. The inner core is a big ball of solid metal, mostly iron and nickel. It is as hot as the sun. The inner core is very, very deep underground, more than 5,000 kilometers down. It was discovered by a woman named Inge Lehmann. She studied earthquakes to find it. Earthquakes make shakes that travel through the Earth. Those shakes helped her know there was something solid at the center.
Rickshaw\n\nA rickshaw is a vehicle with two wheels. A person pulls it by walking or running. Some rickshaws are pulled by a bicycle, and some have a motor. Rickshaws are common in Bangladesh and Japan. People ride in them to go from one place to another.
Mongoose\n\nA mongoose is a small animal that looks a bit like a cat. It has a long body, short legs, and a bushy tail. Mongooses live in Asia, Africa, the Caribbean, and southern Europe. They are very brave and can fight snakes. In a story called "The Jungle Book," a mongoose named Rikki-Tikki-Tavi saves a family from snakes.
Refrigerator\n\nA refrigerator is a machine that keeps things cold. People put food and drinks inside to keep them good for a longer time. It has a part that takes the heat from inside and moves it outside. Most refrigerators use electricity to work. Some small ones, called coolers, use ice instead. Refrigerators come in many colors, but white is common. A freezer is a special kind of refrigerator that is even colder. It keeps food frozen so it lasts a very long time. Freezers can be part of a refrigerator or a separate box. Some freezers stand up like a refrigerator, and some lie down like a chest.
Rutabaga\n\nA rutabaga is a vegetable that grows in the ground. It has a rough outside that is often covered in wax. Inside, a rutabaga is yellow. When you cook it, the inside turns a bright yellow color. Rutabagas grow best when the weather is cool. They take a long time to grow big.
Cuba\n\nCuba is an island country in the warm Caribbean Sea. It is made up of one big island and many smaller ones. Havana is the biggest city and the capital. People from Cuba are called Cubans, and they speak Spanish. Cuba is warm all year long. Cuba is famous for fun dance music like salsa and mambo. Many people in Cuba love to read books and play sports like baseball. Before people from Spain came, three groups of native people lived on the island. They grew food like beans and corn and slept in hammocks. Later, Spain ruled Cuba and brought many people from Africa to work as slaves. In 1898, the United States helped Cuba become free from Spain. In 1959, a man named Fidel Castro led a revolution and took over the country. Cuba became a communist country, which means the government controls many things. The United States stopped trading with Cuba, and many Cubans moved to America. In the 1990s, Cuba became very poor when the Soviet Union, its friend, fell apart. Later, Cuba started letting tourists visit, and that helped the country make money again.
Fire\n\nFire is a hot, bright thing that gives off light and heat. It happens when something burns very fast. Fire can be useful: it keeps us warm on cold days, cooks our food, and helps us see in the dark. But fire is also very dangerous. It can burn your skin if you touch it, and it can burn down houses and trees. Forest fires can destroy big areas quickly. Fire needs three things to keep burning: air, something to burn like wood, and heat. To stop a fire, you can take away the air, cool it with water, or remove the fuel. Firefighters are people who are trained to put out fires and help people.
Chicken as food\n\nChicken is a bird that people eat as food. It is the most common bird people eat around the world. People cook chicken in many ways, like boiling, baking, frying, or grilling. Chicken is healthier than red meat because it has less of the bad stuff that can make you sick. People have been eating chicken for a very long time, since ancient times. Today, many people eat chicken from fast food places. Some chickens are raised just for their meat, and they are called broilers. The parts of a chicken that people eat are the breast, legs, wings, and thighs.
Oil paint\n\nOil paint is a kind of paint that artists use to make pictures. The color in oil paint is mixed with oil, usually from flax seeds. A picture made with oil paint is called an oil painting. Oil paint takes a long time to dry, so artists can keep working on it for many days. Some artists even work on a painting for years. Oil paint can be used on wood or on cloth called canvas. Artists can make the paint thick or thin, and they can mix colors to get new ones. Oil paintings can last a very long time.
Harvest\n\nHarvest is when farmers pick the food that has grown in the ground. They gather fruits, vegetables, and grains that are ready to eat. Sometimes the plants get hurt by bad weather or bugs, and then there is less food to pick. That is called a harvest failure. People can also harvest things from the water, like oysters and scallops.
Photocopier\n\nA photocopier is a machine that makes copies of words or pictures from one piece of paper onto another. You put the paper you want to copy on a glass window, close the lid, and press a button. The machine then makes a new paper that looks just like the first one. Some photocopiers can make many copies at once, and some can even print in colors. You can find photocopiers at school, at the library, or at an office where grown-ups work.
Mastiff\n\nA Mastiff is a very big dog with a big head and wrinkled forehead. It has a strong body and thick muscles. Mastiffs are one of the largest dogs and can weigh more than many grown-up men. They are gentle with their family and make good guard dogs. Mastiffs are calm and take their time to learn things. They need patient training when they are puppies. A Mastiff will protect its family if someone is mean. It is important to teach a Mastiff who is a friend and who is not.
Electric current\n\nElectric current is a flow of tiny bits called electrons through a wire. It is like water moving through a hose. When you turn on a light, electric current flows through the wire to make it glow. Batteries also have electric current inside them. Lightning is a very big and fast electric current in the sky. Electric current can be fast or slow, and we use things called resistors to make it go slower.
Lemon\n\nA lemon is a yellow fruit that tastes sour. It grows on a small tree. People squeeze lemons to get juice. The juice can be used to make lemonade or to cook food. Lemons first grew in Asia, in places like India and China. They are related to oranges.
Passenger pigeon\n\nThe passenger pigeon was a bird that lived in North America. It was once the most common bird in the world. These birds flew in huge groups that could be very long and wide. Sometimes there were so many birds that they blocked the sun. People hunted them for food, and soon there were no more passenger pigeons left. The last one died in 1914.
Thought\n\nThought is what your brain does when you are awake. It is like a little voice inside your head that helps you think about things. You use thought to solve problems, like figuring out how to put a puzzle together. Animals also use their brains to solve problems, but we do not know if they think like we do. Many smart people study thought to understand how our brains work.
Mountain range\n\nA mountain range is a long line of big, tall mountains that stand close together. Some mountain ranges are very long, like the Andes in South America. The Himalayas have the highest mountains in the world, including Mount Everest. Mountains can change the weather: when wind blows against them, the air gets cold and makes rain or snow on one side, while the other side stays dry. Over a very long time, rain and wind wear the mountains down, and the broken pieces turn into sand and dirt that fill up valleys.
Sling (weapon)\n\nA sling is a weapon that you swing a rock around in to make it go fast, then you let go and the rock flies far. Long ago, people used slings to fight. A boy named David used a sling to throw a stone at a giant named Goliath and hit him on the head. A good slinger could hit a small target from far away. The rock could go as far as 200 meters.
Profit\n\nProfit is the extra money you have after you sell something. If you buy a toy for 5 and sell it for 8, you have 3 more than before. That 3 is your profit.
Atlantic Ocean\n\nThe Atlantic Ocean is a very big body of salt water. It is the second biggest ocean in the world. It covers about one-fifth of the Earth. The Atlantic Ocean sits between North America and South America on one side, and Europe and Africa on the other side. A long time ago, the land on each side was all stuck together. Then the land slowly moved apart, and the ocean filled in between. The Atlantic Ocean is still getting bigger every year. There is a big underwater mountain chain called the Mid-Atlantic Ridge that runs down the middle of the ocean. The Gulf Stream is a warm current in the Atlantic. It brings warm water from near the Caribbean Sea up toward Europe. This makes places like France and England warmer in winter than places like Canada that are far north too. Many ships cross the Atlantic Ocean. A famous ship called the Titanic sank in the Atlantic Ocean long ago.
Equator\n\nThe equator is a pretend line that goes around the middle of the Earth. It is not a real line you can see. The equator is exactly halfway between the North Pole and the South Pole. At the equator, day and night are the same length all year long. Places near the equator are very warm and wet, and they do not have four seasons like spring, summer, fall, and winter.
Foam\n\nFoam is made when gas gets trapped inside tiny bubbles. You can see foam in soapy water when you wash your hands. The bubbles are filled with air and have thin walls of liquid around them. Foam feels light and soft, and it can pop easily.
Goose\n\nA goose is a bird that lives near water. Geese have long necks and webbed feet. They like to stay together in groups. A group of geese is called a gaggle. A baby goose is called a gosling. Geese fly in a V shape when they go to warm places in the fall and come back in the spring.
Astronomical object\n\nAn astronomical object is anything that floats in space. Stars, planets, moons, and rocks in space are all astronomical objects. The Sun is a star, and Earth is a planet. The Moon is a rock that goes around Earth. Some space rocks are very small, and some are very big.
Digestion\n\nDigestion is how your body breaks down food so it can use it. First, your teeth chew food into small pieces. Then the food goes down a tube into your stomach. Your stomach mashes the food into a soupy mix. Next, the mix goes into a long tube called the small intestine. There, tiny bits of food go into your blood. Your blood carries the food bits to your liver, which is like a factory for your body. The leftover food goes into the large intestine, where water is taken out. The rest is called poop, and it stays in your bottom until you go to the bathroom.
Examination\n\nAn examination is a test. It asks questions to see what you know or can do. A doctor might examine you to find out why you are sick. A mechanic might examine a car to see why it does not work. In school, a test shows how much you have learned. You might take a written test, a test on a computer, or a practical test like driving a car or playing a song. If you answer the questions right, you pass. If you get many wrong, you fail. Sometimes you can try again later. When you pass, you might get a paper that says you did well.
Bass guitar\n\nA bass guitar is a big string instrument that makes low, deep sounds. It looks like an electric guitar but is longer and bigger. People play it with their fingers or a pick. The bass guitar has four thick strings, but some have five or six. It is used in rock, pop, country, and jazz music to play the low part of the song. The first bass guitar was made by Leo Fender in the 1950s. It is made of wood and has metal frets on the neck to help play the right notes. The strings sit over magnetic pickups that send the sound to an amplifier so everyone can hear the deep notes.
Vehicle\n\nA vehicle is a machine that moves people and things. It is not alive. Some vehicles go on land, like cars, buses, bicycles, and trains. Most land vehicles have wheels. Some vehicles go on water, like boats and ships. Some vehicles fly in the sky, like airplanes and balloons. A few vehicles can even go to outer space. Vehicles need power to move, like gas or electricity. Some vehicles, like gliders, do not have their own power.
Faroe Islands\n\nThe Faroe Islands are a group of eighteen islands in the north Atlantic Ocean. They are part of the Kingdom of Denmark. The name means "Sheep Islands" because there are many sheep. In fact, there are more sheep than people living there. About 55,000 people live on the islands. The islands have cool summers and cold winters. There are no big lakes or rivers. Many birds live there, like eider ducks and puffins. You can also see grey seals and sometimes whales in the water. People there catch fish and raise sheep. They also have tourists who visit.
Bias\n\nBias is when someone likes one idea more than another and does not give other ideas a fair chance. For example, a newspaper might write more good stories about one group and more bad stories about another group because the people who work there like that group better. Bias can also happen when someone uses mean words to talk about a group of people. Another kind of bias is when a measurement is not right, like measuring how tall someone is while they are wearing shoes, which makes them seem taller than they really are.
Danish language\n\nDanish is a language that people speak in Denmark. It sounds different from English. People in Denmark, the Faroe Islands, and parts of Greenland and Germany talk in Danish. About five and a half million people speak it. The people who live in Denmark call their language 'dansk'.
Bobsleigh\n\nBobsleigh is a sport where people ride a sled down a slippery ice track very fast. The track is made of concrete with ice on top. Teams of two or four people sit in the sled and steer it down the hill. Bobsleigh is played at the Winter Olympic Games. The first bobsleds were made a long time ago in a place called St. Moritz, Switzerland.
Forensic science\n\nForensic science is when people use science to help answer questions about a crime. They look for clues like fingerprints, hairs, or tiny pieces of skin. These clues are checked in a lab to see if someone was at the place where the crime happened. The people who do this job have to be very careful, because a mistake could put the wrong person in trouble.
Zinc\n\nZinc is a metal that looks shiny and bluish-grey. It is found in the ground inside rocks. People use zinc to stop metal from rusting, like on cars and boats. Zinc is also in batteries that make toys work. Your body needs a tiny bit of zinc to stay healthy. You can get zinc from food like whole wheat. Some vitamins have zinc in them too.
Consonant\n\nA consonant is a sound you make when you partly block the air in your mouth. Letters like B, C, D, F, G, H, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, S, T, V, W, X, Y, and Z are consonants. When you say a consonant, your lips, teeth, or tongue stop the air a little bit. For example, the sound "b" is made by closing your lips and then opening them. Some consonants are quiet, like "p," and some are loud, like "b." You need a vowel next to a consonant to make a word part.
Symbolism\n\nSymbolism is when something stands for something else. A heart can stand for love. A red light means stop. In stories, a bird might stand for being free. Symbols help us understand big ideas in a simple way.
Andromeda galaxy\n\nThe Andromeda galaxy is a huge group of stars far, far away in space. It is the closest big galaxy to our own galaxy, the Milky Way. Andromeda looks like a small, fuzzy star in the night sky. It has more stars than our galaxy—about one trillion stars! Andromeda is moving toward us, and in a very, very long time, it will bump into the Milky Way and they will become one big galaxy. You can see Andromeda without a telescope on a dark, clear night.
Force\n\nA force is a push or a pull between things. When you push a toy car, that is a force. When you pull a door open, that is also a force. Forces can make things move, stop, change direction, or change shape. Gravity is a force that pulls everything down toward the ground. It is why things fall when you drop them. The strength of a force is measured in newtons. Forces always come in pairs: when you push something, it pushes back just as hard.
Emotion\n\nEmotions are what people feel inside. They are very old and all mammals have them. Emotions help animals change how they act when things around them change. For example, a dog wags its tail when it is happy to see you. People show emotions on their faces, like smiling when happy or frowning when sad. Charles Darwin studied how people show emotions in different places and found that people everywhere show them in the same way. Some animals, like cats and dogs, also have feelings that look like ours.
Tug of war\n\nTug of war is a game where two teams pull a rope. Each team holds one end of the rope. The teams try to pull the other team across a line or into a mud pit. The team that pulls the hardest wins. It is a fun game for children and grown-ups.
Burn\n\nA burn is a hurt on your skin. It can happen when you touch something very hot, like fire or hot water. Most burns are small and get better at home. A first-degree burn hurts the top layer of skin and heals fast. A second-degree burn goes deeper and might need a doctor. A third-degree burn is very bad and hurts all the way through the skin. A fourth-degree burn is the worst and can hurt the nerves so much that you feel no pain there. Bad burns need to be treated at the hospital right away.
Australian rules football\n\nAustralian rules football is a sport that people play in Australia. It is the most popular sport there. The game is played on a big oval field. Two teams try to kick a ball between four tall poles at each end. If the ball goes between the middle two poles, it is a goal and gives six points. If it goes between the outer poles, it is a behind and gives one point. Players can run with the ball, but they must bounce it every few steps. They can also hit the ball with their hand to pass it to a friend. When a player catches a ball that was kicked by someone else, that is called a mark, and no one can touch him until he starts moving again. The game has four parts called quarters, each twenty minutes long. Many people go to watch the games, and sometimes over 100,000 people come to see the big matches.
Theatre\n\nA theatre is a place where people go to watch a story acted out on a stage. Long ago in Greece, people made up plays and acted them outside in big open spaces. The actors wore masks so the crowd could see different characters. Today, a theatre can be a big building with a stage, seats, and lights. People called actors pretend to be other people and tell a story. Some theatres show movies, and some show live plays. Going to the theatre is fun because you can watch a story come to life.
Colombia\n\nColombia is a country in South America. It is near the equator, so it is warm. Colombia has beaches on two big oceans: the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea. Many people live there, more than 51 million. The capital city is Bogotá. Other big cities are Medellín, Cali, and Cartagena. People in Colombia speak Spanish. Colombia has high mountains, big plains, and part of the Amazon rainforest. It is home to many kinds of animals and plants. Colombia has more kinds of birds than any other country. It also makes most of the world's emeralds, which are green shiny stones.
Dune\n\nA dune is a hill made of sand. Wind blows the sand into piles, and that makes a dune. You can find dunes in deserts and on some beaches. Dunes can be big or small, and they can move slowly when the wind pushes them. Mars, a planet far away, also has dunes.
Infinity\n\nInfinity is a word that means something never ends. It is like counting 1, 2, 3, and never stopping. You can keep adding numbers forever. Some things in math are infinite, like the list of all numbers. There are different kinds of infinity. One kind is like counting forever. Another kind is like a line that goes on and on without end. Infinity is not a real number, but it helps us think about things that are very, very big and never stop.
Jurassic\n\nThe Jurassic was a time long, long ago, even before the dinosaurs were gone. It was the middle part of the age of dinosaurs. The weather was hot and wet, and the land was all one big piece called Pangaea. Many big dinosaurs lived then, like the long-necked sauropods. There were also flying reptiles called pterosaurs and swimming reptiles like plesiosaurs. The first birds, like Archaeopteryx, appeared. Plants like ferns and conifers grew everywhere. The Jurassic ended about 145 million years ago.
Earless seal\n\nAn earless seal is a kind of animal that lives in the water and on land. It has a round body, short front flippers, and no outside ears. Earless seals swim very well and eat fish. They live in cold places like the Arctic and Antarctica. Baby earless seals are called pups and have soft white fur.
Statue of Liberty\n\nThe Statue of Liberty is a very big statue of a woman. It stands on an island near New York City. The statue was a gift from France to the United States a long time ago. It shows a woman holding a torch high in the air. In her other hand she holds a tablet with a date on it. She wears a robe, a crown, and sandals. The statue is made of copper, which turned green over time. People can take a boat to visit the statue and climb up inside it. The statue welcomes people who come to America by ship.
Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\n\nAlice's Adventures in Wonderland is a story about a girl named Alice. One day, Alice sees a white rabbit and follows it down a hole. She falls into a magical place called Wonderland. In Wonderland, Alice meets funny characters like a cat that smiles and a caterpillar. She eats cakes and mushrooms that make her grow big or small. At the end, Alice wakes up and finds she was dreaming. The story was written by Lewis Carroll a long time ago. Many movies and shows have been made about Alice's adventures.
Atlantis\n\nAtlantis is a name for a big island that people tell stories about. A long time ago, a Greek man named Plato wrote about Atlantis. He said it was a very large island in the ocean, and the people who lived there were half human and half god. They were good at first, but then they did bad things. The gods got angry and sent earthquakes and fire to make the island sink into the sea. Many people think Atlantis was just a story, but some people wonder if it was real. Today, Atlantis appears in comic books and movies, where it is a city under the water.
Barranquilla\n\nBarranquilla is a big city in the country of Colombia. It is in the north part of Colombia. Many people live there. It is the fourth biggest city in Colombia. The city has a big party every year called Carnival. People wear colorful clothes and dance in the streets.
Public\n\nPublic means people. In some learning, public is a group of people who have the same problem and try to fix it. For example, a public can be people who talk about a problem together. Some publics are about the same ideas or hobbies. Other publics use technology like social media to connect. Publics can be different based on how much they know about a problem and what they do about it.
Rivet\n\nA rivet is a small metal piece that holds two flat metal parts together. Long ago, people used rivets to build big ships and bridges. Workers would heat the rivet until it was very hot, then hammer it into a hole. When the metal cooled, it pulled the two parts tight. Riveting made a loud noise. Today, most things are built with welding or strong bolts, but airplanes still use rivets because they are light and strong.
Copper\n\nCopper is a metal that comes from the ground. It is a reddish-orange color when it is new, but it turns green after being in the air for a long time. That is why the Statue of Liberty is green. Copper is very soft and can be stretched into thin wires. People use copper wires to carry electricity in houses. Copper is also used to make pipes for water. When copper is mixed with tin, it makes a harder metal called bronze. When mixed with zinc, it makes brass. Copper is important for our bodies, and we get it from food. Some animals, like snails and crabs, have blue blood because they have copper in their blood.
New World monkey\n\nNew World monkeys are a kind of monkey that lives in Central and South America. They have flat noses with holes that point to the sides. Many of them cannot see all colors. Some have long tails that can grab things like tree branches. Baby monkeys often come in pairs of two, and both mom and dad help take care of them.
Baghdad\n\nBaghdad is a big city in a country called Iraq. It is the biggest city in that country. Many people live there. The city sits next to a big river called the Tigris. A long time ago, Baghdad was a very important place where people learned many things. It was a center for art and poetry. The city was built by a ruler named al-Mansur. Later, other groups took over the city. Today, Baghdad is still a busy city with many people.
Supermarket\n\nA supermarket is a big store where people buy food. You can find fresh fruit, vegetables, meat, and fish there. Some supermarkets also sell soap, toothpaste, and cleaning things. You take a cart or basket and pick what you want. Then you pay at the checkout. Some supermarkets have a bakery or a place that sells hot food. Every week, some items cost less, and a paper shows which ones are on sale.
Planet\n\nA planet is a very big ball in space that goes around a star, like Earth goes around the Sun. Planets do not make their own light, but they can shine because the Sun's light bounces off them. There are eight planets in our Solar System. The biggest one is Jupiter, and the smallest one is Mercury. Planets are round like a ball, but a little squished. Some planets are made of rock, like Earth and Mars. Others are made of gas, like Jupiter and Saturn. A long time ago, people named the planets after gods and goddesses from old stories.
Filter\n\nA filter is a tool that takes out things you do not want. For example, a coffee filter lets the brown drink through but keeps the coffee grounds out. In a radio, a filter helps you pick one station and block the others. Some filters clean water by taking out tiny bits that make it dirty. A camera can use a filter to change how a picture looks. On a computer, a filter can hide words or pictures you do not want to see.
Eurasia\n\nEurasia is a very big piece of land on Earth. It is made of two parts: Europe and Asia. The Atlantic Ocean is on one side, and the Pacific Ocean is on the other. The Arctic Ocean is at the top, and the Mediterranean Sea and Indian Ocean are at the bottom. Eurasia is the biggest land area in the world. Its name comes from putting "Eur" from Europe and "Asia" together. Some people think Eurasia is one big continent because Europe and Asia are on the same big rock under the ground and there is no sea between them. Long ago, Greek people thought Europe and Asia were two different places, and many people still think that today. The Ural Mountains sometimes split Eurasia into west and east parts. Many countries are in Eurasia, from near the European Union all the way to the far east.
Fairy tale\n\nA fairy tale is a kind of short story. It is not a true story. Fairy tales often have magic, like fairies, goblins, elves, trolls, giants, or talking animals. They also have kings, queens, princes, and princesses. Many fairy tales start with "Once upon a time." Some old fairy tales are "Sleeping Beauty," "Little Red Riding Hood," and "The Three Little Pigs." New fairy tales can be written by people like Hans Christian Andersen. Fairy tales are for children, but grown-ups used to like them too.
Arabian Peninsula\n\nThe Arabian Peninsula is a very big piece of land in Asia. It is shaped like a boot sticking out into the water. The Red Sea and the Arabian Sea are next to it. Many countries are on this peninsula, like Saudi Arabia and Yemen. Most of the land is hot desert with lots of sand. There are some mountains that get a little rain. People find oil under the ground in the north part.
Maze\n\nA maze is a puzzle with many paths. Some mazes are on paper, and you draw a line to find the way out. Other mazes are big enough to walk through. You have to find the right path to get to the end. Some mazes have a ball that you move through the paths.
Theism\n\nTheism is when people believe in a god. Some people believe in one god, and some believe in many gods. A person who believes in a god is called a theist. A person who does not believe in any god is called an atheist. Different people have different ideas about god.
Fertilizer\n\nFertilizer is a special food for plants. It helps plants grow big and strong. Plants take food from the dirt, and rain can wash the food away. Fertilizer puts the food back. Some plants need more of one kind of food, and some need another. You can buy fertilizer in bags at a garden store.
San Marino\n\nSan Marino is a very small country in Europe. It is inside Italy, like a tiny island on land. Fewer than 30,000 people live there. The capital city is also called San Marino. People there speak Italian. Many visitors come to see the old buildings and buy stamps. The country is very old and has been a republic for a long time. It started a very long time ago, in the year 301. A man named Saint Marinus built a small church on a mountain, and that became San Marino. The land is hilly and rocky, with a big mountain called Monte Titano. The food is like Italian food, and they make a special chocolate cake called Torta Tre Monti.
Washing machine\n\nA washing machine is a machine that washes dirty clothes. You put clothes inside a big round tub, and the machine fills it with water and spins very fast. The spinning makes the water clean the dirt off the clothes. You also add soap called detergent to help get the clothes cleaner. Some washing machines have a door on the front, and some have a lid on top. A front-loading machine can have a dryer stacked on top to save space. A top-loading machine has the opening on top, so you cannot put things on top of it. Some machines do everything by themselves, and some need you to move the clothes to a separate dryer.
Manchuria\n\nManchuria is a big piece of land in the northeast part of China. It is where the Manchu people used to live. The land has mountains, grass, rocks, and some dry places. In summer it is very hot and wet, and in winter it is very cold and dry. Long ago, the Manchu people made their own country and later ruled all of China. Some parts of Manchuria are now in Russia.
Vienna\n\nVienna is a big city in a country called Austria. It is the capital, which means it is the most important city in that country. More than 1,800,000 people live there. The city sits on a big river called the Danube. Long ago, Vienna was the home of famous music makers like Mozart and Beethoven. Today, people can visit old buildings, churches, and museums in the city center. Vienna also has two famous orchestras that play beautiful music.
Dialect\n\nA dialect is a way of speaking a language that a group of people use. People who live in the same place or are in the same group may share a dialect. For example, British English and American English are different ways of speaking English. They have some different words and sounds, but people who speak them can still understand each other. Sometimes it is hard to tell if something is a language or a dialect. A long time ago, travel was hard, so people in different towns spoke in different ways. Even some birds and whales have different songs in different places, and people call those dialects too.
Expressionism\n\nExpressionism is a way of making art. Artists who use expressionism do not try to show things exactly as they look. Instead, they use colors and shapes to show how they feel inside. For example, they might paint a sky red if they feel angry or excited. This kind of art started a long time ago, before the First World War. It became very popular in the 1920s in a city called Berlin. Expressionism can be seen in paintings, plays, dances, movies, and even buildings. One famous expressionist painting is called "The Scream" by an artist named Edvard Munch. It shows a person who looks very scared or sad.
Clay\n\nClay is a soft, wet dirt that comes from rocks that have broken down into very tiny pieces. When clay is wet, you can squish it and shape it with your hands. People use clay to make pots, cups, and bricks. After you shape the clay, you can put it in a very hot oven called a kiln to make it hard. Clay can be many colors, like red, brown, or white. It feels smooth and sticky when it is wet.
Conscience\n\nConscience is a little voice inside you that tells you if something is right or wrong. When you do something nice, your conscience feels happy. When you do something not nice, your conscience can make you feel sad. It helps you want to be good.
20th-century classical music\n\n20th-century classical music is music written by people who make special songs and sounds, called composers, from the year 1900 to 1999. This music is very different from older music because composers tried new ideas. Some composers, like Arnold Schoenberg, made music that did not sound like it was in a key, and they used a special way to put notes in order called serialism. Other composers, like Igor Stravinsky, used music from old times but changed it with strange sounds, which is called neoclassicism. In France, Claude Debussy made music that sounds like paintings, with blurry notes and pretty chords. Some composers kept writing music that sounds like old romantic songs, like Edward Elgar and Sergei Rachmaninoff. In America, jazz music mixed with classical music, like in George Gershwin's songs. Later, some composers made music that repeats simple ideas over and over, called minimalism, like Steve Reich and Philip Glass. There are many kinds of 20th-century classical music, and each composer had their own way of making sounds.
Leprechaun\n\nA leprechaun is a make-believe little man from stories in Ireland. He looks like a tiny old man and likes to play tricks. People say he has a pot of gold hidden somewhere. If you look at a leprechaun, he cannot run away. But if you look away even for a second, he disappears.
Angle\n\nAn angle is made when two straight lines meet at a point. The lines are called the sides of the angle. We measure how big an angle is using degrees. A full circle has 360 degrees. A square corner is 90 degrees. A straight line is 180 degrees. Some angles are small, and some are big. We see angles in many places, like the corner of a book or the hands of a clock.
Alpine skiing\n\nAlpine skiing is a winter sport where people slide down snowy hills on long, thin boards called skis. The person who goes down the fastest wins. There are different kinds of races, like going straight down fast or zigzagging between poles. This sport started a long time ago in Norway. Today, many people can try it at ski places all over the world. The best skiers race in big competitions like the World Cup and the Olympics.
Aquaculture\n\nAquaculture is when people grow fish and other sea animals on farms. People have been doing this for a very long time, starting in China. They grow fish like catfish, salmon, and trout. Some farms grow shrimp and seaweed too. Today, half of the fish people eat in the United States comes from these farms. When farms are run well, they do not hurt the ocean much.
Decathlon\n\nA decathlon is a sports contest with ten different races and throws and jumps. The word decathlon means 'ten feats' in an old language. Athletes run fast, jump far, jump high, and throw heavy things. They do all ten events to see who is the best all-around athlete.
Etiquette\n\nEtiquette is a set of rules about how to be nice to other people. It tells you to say please and thank you, to wait your turn, and to share. Different places have different rules. What is nice in one place might not be nice in another. Etiquette helps everyone get along.
School\n\nA school is a place where children go to learn. At school, a teacher helps students learn new things like reading, writing, and math. Children sit in a classroom with other kids their age. There are different types of schools: some are for little kids, some for bigger kids, and some for grown-ups. In many places, children must go to school for a certain number of years. Schools can be for boys only, girls only, or both boys and girls together. Some schools are boarding schools, where children live at school and only go home for holidays. Long ago, not many people could read or write, but now almost all children go to school to learn.
Santo Domingo\n\nSanto Domingo is a big city and the capital of the Dominican Republic. It is on an island near the Caribbean Sea. The city sits where the Ozama River meets the sea. Santo Domingo is the oldest city in the Americas where people have lived since it was built long ago. The weather is warm all year, but sometimes big storms called hurricanes come. Many people live there, and most have dark skin. The old part of the city is called the Colonial Zone, with old buildings and walls from long ago. There are parks, a zoo, and a big garden. People there love baseball, and two baseball teams play in the city. There are also many schools, including the first university in the Americas.
Jaw\n\nYour jaw is the part of your body that helps you eat. It has two bones in your mouth. The top bone is called the upper jaw, and the bottom bone is called the lower jaw. Your jaw moves up and down so your teeth can chew food. Some animals, like bugs, have jaws that open left and right instead. Sea urchins have five jaws with one tooth each. Some animals do not have jaws at all.
Frequency\n\nFrequency is how many times something happens in one second. For waves, like light or sound, frequency tells us how many wave tops go past a spot in one second. We measure frequency in hertz. If a wave has a high frequency, many tops go by each second. If it has a low frequency, only a few tops go by. Light and radio waves are different kinds of waves, and they have different frequencies. You can think of it like trains: if two trains go the same speed, the one with smaller cars will have more cars pass a sign in one second. That is like a higher frequency.
Great white shark\n\nA great white shark is a very big fish that lives in the sea. It is the biggest fish that eats other animals. It can grow as long as a car and weigh as much as a small truck. Great white sharks have many sharp teeth in rows. When a tooth falls out, a new one comes to take its place. They can smell one tiny drop of blood in a whole swimming pool of water. Great white sharks eat fish, seals, sea lions, and other sea animals. They are very fast swimmers. Sometimes they jump out of the water to catch food. Great white sharks live in warm seas near the coast. They are not mean to people on purpose, but sometimes they bite by mistake because they are curious. Most of the time, they bite once and then swim away.
Swallow\n\nA swallow is a small bird that flies very fast. It has long, pointy wings and a tail that looks like a fork. Swallows catch bugs while they are flying in the sky. They build their nests out of mud and stick them under roofs or on walls. Some swallows fly to warm places in winter and come back in spring. You can see them swooping and diving in the air.
Caribbean\n\nThe Caribbean is a place with a big blue sea and many islands. The sun is hot, and there are lots of white sandy beaches. Some famous islands are Cuba, Jamaica, and Puerto Rico. The islands have many different plants and animals, even some that are hard to find anywhere else. Long ago, people from Europe, Africa, and India came to live there, so the Caribbean has a mix of many cultures.
Salmon\n\nSalmon is a fish that lives in the ocean and in rivers. It can swim from the ocean into rivers to lay eggs. Many people like to eat salmon. Some salmon are raised on fish farms. The meat of salmon is pink because of the food they eat. If they do not eat that food, the meat is gray. People cook salmon in many ways, like smoking it.
Birth\n\nBirth is when a baby comes out of its mother. For animals that lay eggs, the baby comes out of the egg. For animals like people, the baby comes out of the mother's body. This is how new babies start their life. A mother's body changes to help the baby come out safely.
Marathon\n\nA marathon is a very long running race. People run 26 miles in a marathon. That is a very long way. Runners must practice a lot before they can finish a marathon. The race is named after a battle a long time ago. A man named Pheidippides ran a long way to tell people good news. Today, many marathons happen all over the world.
Pesticide\n\nA pesticide is a special chemical that people use to kill small animals they do not want. These unwanted animals are called pests. Pests can be bugs, tiny germs that hurt plants, or other things that are bad for people. But many pesticides are also bad for people and the world around us. They can make water dirty and hurt fish and other animals that live in water. Pesticides can also kill good bugs that help flowers and plants grow. Sometimes there are other ways to get rid of pests without using chemicals.
Computer graphics\n\nComputer graphics are pictures made with a computer. They can be one picture or many pictures that move, like in a movie or a video game. People use computer graphics to make movies, video games, and art. Some computer graphics are flat, like a drawing on paper. Others look like real things because they have height, width, and depth. Flat pictures are called 2D, and they can be made with lines and shapes or tiny dots called pixels. Pictures that look real are called 3D, and they are used in movies and video games. People use special computer programs to make these graphics.
Citrus\n\nCitrus is a kind of plant that grows fruit. These plants are like small trees or bushes with flowers. The fruit they make is called citrus fruit. Oranges, lemons, limes, and grapefruits are all citrus fruits. Citrus plants grow in warm places like Asia and Australia. People have been growing them for a very long time. The fruits taste sour or sweet and are good to eat.
Pterosaur\n\nA pterosaur was a flying reptile that lived a long time ago, at the same time as the dinosaurs. Some pterosaurs were small, but others grew very big. The biggest one, Quetzalcoatlus, had wings as wide as a big house. Pterosaurs were the first animals with backbones to fly by flapping their wings. Their wings were made of skin that stretched from their body to a very long finger. Some pterosaurs had long tails and teeth, while others had short tails and no teeth. They ate fish or insects. Pterosaurs are not alive today; they all died out a very long time ago.
Samoa\n\nSamoa is a country in the Pacific Ocean. It has two big islands called Upolu and Savai'i. The capital city is Apia, on the island of Upolu. People in Samoa speak Samoan and English. The most popular sport in Samoa is Rugby, and many Samoans play it. Samoa is near the equator, halfway between Hawai'i and New Zealand. The weather is warm. Many people in Samoa are Samoan, and some have mixed European and Polynesian family. Samoan people have special tattoos for boys and girls. The boys' tattoo is called Pe'a, and the girls' tattoo is called malu.
Fish\n\nA fish is an animal that lives in water. Fish breathe through special parts called gills. Most fish have scales on their body and fins to help them swim. Fish come in many sizes. Some are smaller than your finger. The biggest fish is the whale shark, which can be as long as a school bus. Fish live in rivers, lakes, and oceans. Some fish live in fresh water, and some live in salt water. Fish eat tiny plants, small animals, or other fish. People eat many kinds of fish, like tuna and salmon. Fish are very old animals. They were on Earth a long time before people.
Yin and yang\n\nYin and yang is a Chinese symbol from an old belief called Taoism. It looks like a circle with two parts: one black and one white. The black part has a little white dot, and the white part has a little black dot. This shows that things that seem opposite, like day and night or hot and cold, actually need each other. The symbol reminds us that we should not have too much or too little of something, like food. You can see this symbol on pictures, in movies, and on some artwork.
Stickleback\n\nA stickleback is a small fish that lives in fresh water in Europe, Asia, and North America. It has no scales, but some have bony plates on their body. Sticklebacks have sharp spines on their back. They eat tiny animals like small bugs and fish babies. The male stickleback builds a nest from plants and uses a sticky stuff from his body to hold it together. He then shows the nest to a female, and she lays her eggs inside. The male takes care of the eggs until they hatch. Some sticklebacks are bold and like to take risks, while others are shy.
Neptune\n\nNeptune is a big, blue planet far, far away from the Sun. It is the eighth planet from the Sun and the farthest one. Neptune is very cold and has the strongest winds of any planet. The winds blow faster than any storm on Earth. Neptune looks blue because of a tiny bit of something called methane in its air. A spaceship named Voyager 2 flew by Neptune in 1989 and saw a big dark spot, like a storm. Neptune has five thin rings around it, but they are hard to see. No one has visited Neptune since Voyager 2.
Frying\n\nFrying is a way to cook food in hot butter or oil. You can fry food in a little bit of fat in a pan or in a lot of oil in a pot. Some restaurants fry a big amount of food in a lot of oil. When you fry food, it gets hot and crispy on the outside.
Guild\n\nA guild is a group of people who do the same kind of work, like making bread or building houses. Long ago, in towns, these groups helped teach new workers how to do the job. A new person had to learn from a master for many years before they could work on their own. There were guilds for bakers, blacksmiths, weavers, and many other jobs. Some guilds still exist today, like the ones in London that help choose the city's leader.
Social network\n\nA social network is a group of people who know each other and spend time together. They can be friends, family, or people who like the same things. People in a social network help each other and share fun times. Most people have a few hundred friends they know well. Social networks can be small, like a family, or big, like a town. Sometimes people in a network do not help when they should, but usually everyone works together to stay safe and happy.
Decibel\n\nA decibel is a way to measure how loud a sound is. It tells us if a sound is soft or very loud. A whisper is about 20 decibels. A normal talk is about 60 decibels. A loud rock concert can be 120 decibels. Sounds that are too loud can hurt your ears. People use earplugs to protect their ears from very loud sounds.
Dinner\n\nDinner is a meal that people eat. In many places, dinner is the big meal you eat in the early evening. Sometimes dinner means a meal in the middle of the day. Dinner can have many different foods, like meat, vegetables, and bread. On special days like Thanksgiving and Christmas, families eat a big dinner together.
Cape Town\n\nCape Town is a big city in South Africa. It is on the coast near the bottom of Africa. The city has a big flat-topped mountain called Table Mountain. Many people visit to see the mountain and the ocean. The weather is warm and sunny in summer. The country's leaders meet in Cape Town to make rules for South Africa.
Thor\n\nThor is a make-believe god from old stories. He is the god of thunder and lightning. Thor is very strong and protects people. He has a magic hammer that always comes back to his hand. Thor rides in a chariot pulled by two goats. Thursday is named after Thor.
Eclipse\n\nAn eclipse is when one thing in the sky blocks the light from another thing. A solar eclipse happens when the Moon moves in front of the Sun. The sky gets dark for a little while. A lunar eclipse happens when the Earth blocks the Sun's light from reaching the Moon. The Moon looks red or dark. Eclipses do not happen very often.
Flying disc\n\nA flying disc is a round, flat toy that you can throw. It has a thick edge that helps you hold it and throw it. When you throw it, you make it spin so it stays steady in the air. People play games with flying discs, like Ultimate and Disc Golf. You can throw a flying disc in many ways, like a backhand or a forehand. Some flying discs are light and can fly very far. The spin keeps the disc from wobbling and falling.
Siren\n\nA siren is a make-believe creature from old stories. Long ago, people said sirens looked like birds with women's heads. Today, many people think sirens look like mermaids. Sirens live on an island with rocks all around. They sing a very pretty song. Sailors hear the song and want to go to the sirens. But the sailors' boats crash into the rocks, and the sailors fall into the water. In one story, a man named Odysseus puts wax in his men's ears so they cannot hear the song. He ties himself to the boat so he cannot go to the sirens. When they pass the island, his men hold him tight until the song is gone.
Newt\n\nA newt is a small animal that lives in water and on land. It is a kind of salamander. Newts are found in North America, Europe, and North Asia. A baby newt starts as an egg in the water. Then it becomes a tiny swimming baby called a tadpole. After a while, it grows legs and leaves the water for a year. This young newt is called an eft. When it grows up, it goes back to the water to have babies. Some newts stay in the water all the time. Others live on land but go to the water each year to lay eggs. Newts have bright colors to warn other animals that they taste bad. Their skin makes a poison that can hurt animals that try to eat them. You can touch a newt, but you must wash your hands after because the poison can make you sick.
Abdomen\n\nThe abdomen is the part of your body between your chest and your legs. It holds your tummy and other parts inside that help you eat and go to the bathroom. The muscles in your abdomen help you bend and sit up.
Beard\n\nA beard is the hair that grows on the bottom part of a man's face. Some men have a lot of beard hair, and some have only a little. The hair above the mouth is called a mustache. Many men cut or shave their beard to keep it short. Some animals have hair that looks like a beard too.
Vowel\n\nA vowel is a sound you make with your mouth open. In English, the letters A, E, I, O, and U are called vowels. Every word has a vowel in it. The letter Y can sometimes be a vowel, like in the word 'sky'. The letter W can also be part of a vowel sound, like in 'cow'. Vowels help us say words.
War elephant\n\nA war elephant is a big, strong elephant that people taught to help in a fight. Long ago, soldiers would ride on the elephant and guide it toward the enemy. The elephant would run fast, knock down people, and break their lines. War elephants were first used in a faraway country called India. Later, other countries used them too. A famous man named Hannibal took elephants across big snowy mountains to fight. But then people made loud boom sticks called cannons, and elephants were not used for fighting anymore. After that, elephants helped with heavy work like moving big logs.
Callisto (moon)\n\nCallisto is a big round moon that goes around the planet Jupiter. It is almost as big as the planet Mercury. Callisto was found a long time ago by a man named Galileo. One side of Callisto always faces Jupiter, and the other side never sees it. The moon is made of rock and ice, and it has many holes called craters on its surface. There might be a big ocean of water under the ice. Callisto has a very thin air around it. Some people think we might be able to live there one day.
Mountain\n\nA mountain is a very big and tall part of the ground that goes up high into the sky. Mountains are bigger and steeper than hills. The top of a mountain is called the summit or peak. Some mountains are made when big pieces of the ground push together and fold up like a rug. Other mountains are made when the ground cracks and one side lifts up. Some mountains are made when hot melted rock comes out of the ground and piles up. The highest mountain on Earth is Mount Everest. Mountains can be found all over the world, and they are home to many animals and plants.
Banff National Park\n\nBanff National Park is a very big park in Canada. It was the first national park in Canada, made a long time ago in 1885. The park has tall mountains, big fields of ice, and lots of green trees. There is a town called Banff near the park. Many people go there to see the mountains and play outside.
Kangaroo\n\nA kangaroo is an animal that lives in Australia. It hops to move around fast. Kangaroos have strong back legs and a long tail. They can hop very far, about three times their own height. They can also swim. Kangaroos eat grass and plants. A mother kangaroo carries her baby, called a joey, in a pouch on her belly. Kangaroos live in groups called mobs. They are a symbol of Australia. Kangaroos can be dangerous because they kick with their strong legs.
Kumquat\n\nA kumquat is a tiny fruit that looks like a small orange. It grows on a small tree with shiny green leaves and white flowers. The tree can have small thorns. You can eat the whole kumquat, even the skin. The inside is a little sour, and the skin is sweet. Kumquats come from China and Japan. They are very tough and can grow in cold places where other oranges cannot.
Computer\n\nA computer is a machine that works with information. It can take in information, change it, save it, and show it. You can tell a computer what to do by using a keyboard, a mouse, or a touch screen. Computers can do many things very fast, like play games, show videos, and help you write. Some computers are small, like phones and laptops. Some are big and help run traffic lights or washing machines. Computers follow instructions called programs. People who write these instructions are called programmers. A long time ago, a man named Charles Babbage thought of the first computer, but he never built it. Today, many people have a computer at home or at work.
Rugby union\n\nRugby union is a sport where two teams of 15 players try to score points with an oval ball. The field is a big rectangle with H-shaped goal posts at each end. Players can score a try by putting the ball down behind the goal posts, which gives 5 points. After a try, they can kick the ball through the goal posts for 2 more points. They can also kick for 3 points during play or from a penalty. The game lasts 80 minutes, and the team with the most points wins. Players must pass the ball sideways or backwards, not forward. Only the player with the ball can be tackled. There is a referee who makes sure everyone follows the rules.
Grandparent\n\nA grandparent is the parent of your mom or dad. A boy grandparent is called a grandfather, and a girl grandparent is called a grandmother. Grandparents often have more time to play and have fun with their grandchildren than parents do. Some people call their grandparents 'grandma,' 'grandpa,' 'granny,' or 'nana.' A grandchild is the child of a grandparent's son or daughter. A boy grandchild is a grandson, and a girl grandchild is a granddaughter. Great-grandparents are the parents of your grandparents. Many children today get to know their great-grandparents because people live longer now.
Basket weaving\n\nBasket weaving is a way to make things by weaving or sewing materials together. People who do this are called basket makers. They can make baskets, mats, bags, or even furniture. You take long pieces of grass, leaves, or thin sticks and cross them over and under each other to make a shape.
Subtraction\n\nSubtraction is taking away some things from a group. If you have seven cookies and you eat four, you have three left. We write that as 7 minus 4 equals 3. The minus sign means take away. Subtraction helps you find out how many are left. When you buy something and pay with more money, the store uses subtraction to give you the right change.
Broccoli\n\nBroccoli is a green vegetable that looks like a little tree. It has a thick stalk and a green top made of many tiny flower buds. Broccoli comes from Italy and is now eaten by people all over the world. It is good for you because it has vitamins that help your body stay strong. You can eat it raw or cooked. Some people like to dip it in ranch dressing. When broccoli grows too long, it turns into yellow flowers.
Eid al-Adha\n\nEid al-Adha is a special holiday for Muslims all around the world. On this day, people remember a story from long ago about a man named Ibrahim who loved God very much. God asked Ibrahim to give up his son, but at the last moment God sent a lamb instead. So on Eid al-Adha, Muslims share meat from a sheep, goat, or cow with their family and with people who do not have much food. They also pray together, give gifts to children, and have a big feast. It is a happy time to show love for God and help others.
Computer security\n\nComputer security is about keeping computers safe. It tells computers what not to do, so bad people cannot break them. People use passwords and locks to protect their computers. This keeps your games, pictures, and information safe from others.
British Museum\n\nThe British Museum is a big building in London where old things from all over the world are kept. It opened a long time ago, in 1759, and was the first museum that let everyone come in for free. The museum has millions of objects, like the Rosetta Stone, which helped people understand old Egyptian writing. It also has the Elgin Marbles, which are stone carvings from Greece. The museum has a huge room with a big glass roof called the Great Court. Many people visit every year to see the old statues, pots, and treasures from Egypt, Greece, Rome, and other places.
Nail\n\nA nail is a small piece of metal. It has a flat top and a pointy end. People use a hammer to push the nail into wood or other things. Nails help hold two pieces of wood together. You can see nails in walls, furniture, and toys. They are very old and were used by people long ago.
Computer mouse\n\nA computer mouse is a small thing you hold in your hand to use a computer. You move it on a flat table or a mouse pad, and a little arrow on the screen moves too. When you push the left button, you can click on pictures or words to open them. The right button opens a special menu. Between the two buttons there is a little wheel that you can roll to make the screen go up or down. Some mice have no wire and use batteries to talk to the computer. Many computers have a mouse, but laptops also have a flat trackpad that does the same thing.
Nepali language\n\nThe Nepali language is a way of talking and writing that people use in Nepal and some parts of India. It is the main language of Nepal, and the government uses it for all official work. Many people in Nepal speak Nepali as their first language. It is written with special letters that look like the letters used for Hindi. Kids in Nepal have to learn Nepali in school until they finish tenth grade.
Plane (tool)\n\nA plane is a tool that people use to make wood flat and smooth. It has a sharp metal blade inside a block of wood or metal. When you push the plane across a piece of wood, it shaves off thin slices and makes the surface even. People have used planes for thousands of years to build furniture and other things.
Dominica\n\nDominica is a small island in the Caribbean Sea. It is a country where people speak English. The island has lots of green rainforests and a big hot spring called Boiling Lake. The capital city is Roseau. About 70,000 people live there. The island is sometimes called the 'Nature Island of the Caribbean' because it has so many beautiful plants and animals. People on Dominica like to play cricket, which is a game with a bat and ball.
Velocity\n\nVelocity is how fast something moves and which way it goes. Speed tells how fast, but velocity tells the direction too. If a car goes 10 miles per hour to the east, that is its velocity. To find average velocity, you see how far something moved and how long it took. Instantaneous velocity is how fast something is going at one exact moment. You can also compare two things moving to find relative velocity.
Rabbi\n\nA rabbi is a teacher in the Jewish religion. Rabbis learn a lot about Jewish rules and stories. They teach people about the Torah, which is a special book. Rabbis also help lead prayers and celebrations in the Jewish community. Some rabbis help make sure food is prepared in a special way called kosher. Long ago, only men could be rabbis. Today, many women are rabbis too. Three rabbis can work together to help solve problems between people.
Ursa Minor\n\nUrsa Minor is a group of stars in the sky. It is also called the Little Bear or the Little Dipper. The stars look like a cup with a long handle. The star at the end of the handle is the North Star, which is also called Polaris. The North Star helps people know which way is north. Ursa Minor has seven bright stars that make the shape of a dipper. The Little Dipper is smaller than the Big Dipper. In old stories, people said the Little Bear had a long tail because a baby bear was spun around the sky by its tail.
Extrasolar planet\n\nAn extrasolar planet is a planet that goes around a star far, far away from our own Sun. Our solar system has eight planets, but there are many other planets in space. Some of these planets are big like Jupiter, and some are small like Earth. A few might even have water, just like our planet. Scientists find these planets by looking at stars that get a little darker when a planet passes in front of them. The nearest star with planets is Alpha Centauri, but it is too far to visit. There are billions of extrasolar planets in our galaxy.
Australia\n\nAustralia is a big country that is also an island. It is in the southern part of the world. The capital city is Canberra, and the biggest city is Sydney. Australia is mostly hot and dry, with a big desert in the middle. About 27 million people live there, and most of them live near the east coast. Australia has special animals that do not live anywhere else, like kangaroos, koalas, and platypuses. The first people to live there were called Aboriginal Australians and Torres Strait Islanders. They arrived a very long time ago, more than 50,000 years ago. Australia is known for mining things like coal and gold, and for making wool. The national flower is the golden wattle.
Amber\n\nAmber is a hard, yellow-orange stone that comes from old tree resin. Resin is a sticky liquid that oozes out of some trees. Long, long ago, the resin got hard and turned into amber. Sometimes tiny bugs, spiders, or leaves got stuck in the sticky resin and are still inside the amber today. People use amber to make pretty beads, jewelry, and other decorations. Most amber in the world comes from a place near the Baltic Sea in Russia. Amber can be many colors, like yellow, orange, brown, and even green or blue. It feels smooth and warm to touch.
Ball\n\nA ball is a round thing you can play with. It can be big like a basketball or small like a marble. Some balls are hollow and some are solid. You can throw a ball, catch it, or kick it. People play games with balls, like baseball and basketball. Animals like armadillos can curl up into a ball shape. You can also make a fist into a ball.
Life\n\nLife is something that can make more of itself. It is different from things that are not alive. All life on Earth needs water and uses the sun for energy. Living things grow, change, and make babies. They can be very small, like a tiny cell, or very big, like a tree or a whale. There are many kinds of life on Earth, such as plants, animals, and tiny things you can only see with a special tool. Life is all around us, in the ground, in the water, and in the air.
Manta ray\n\nA manta ray is a very big fish that lives in warm ocean water near coral reefs. It is the biggest kind of ray. A manta ray can be very wide and very heavy. It has a big brain for its body size. Manta rays swim deep in the cold ocean. Some manta rays travel far, and some stay near reefs. Big sharks like tiger sharks may try to eat manta rays.
Negative number\n\nA negative number is a number that is smaller than zero. You write it with a minus sign in front, like -3. On a number line, negative numbers are to the left of zero. If you have 3 and -3, they are the same distance from zero but on opposite sides. When you add a number and its opposite, like 3 and -3, you get zero. People use negative numbers to show things like owing money or temperatures below freezing.
Rail transport\n\nRail transport is when people and things move in trains on tracks. Trains are long vehicles with wheels that roll on metal rails. The tracks are smooth and hard, so trains can carry very heavy loads without using too much energy. Trains can be pulled by engines that use diesel fuel or electricity. The first trains used steam power and were built in England a long time ago. Today, fast trains connect many cities in different countries. Trains help people travel and help shops get things to sell.
Potter's wheel\n\nA potter's wheel is a machine that spins around to help people make round bowls and pots out of clay. The potter puts a lump of soft clay on the wheel and pushes it with their hands while the wheel turns. The spinning clay takes shape into a cup, a plate, or a vase. Long ago, people made pots by rolling clay into long ropes and pinching them together. The potter's wheel made it faster and easier to make round shapes. Some old stories say that a god named Chnum made the first people on a potter's wheel.
Locust\n\nA locust is a kind of bug that looks like a grasshopper. Sometimes a huge group of locusts flies together. This group is called a swarm. A swarm can have many, many locusts. They eat all the green plants they find, like the food that farmers grow. This can hurt the plants and make it hard for people to get food. Locusts can fly very far and very fast. Some people eat locusts as food. Long ago, people wrote about locust swarms in stories.
Atmosphere\n\nAn atmosphere is a big blanket of air around a planet. The air is made of different gases. Gravity holds the air close to the planet so it does not float away into space. Earth has an atmosphere that lets us breathe and keeps us warm. The sky looks blue because of the atmosphere.
Sandpiper\n\nA sandpiper is a small bird that lives near water, like the ocean or a lake. It has a long, pointy beak and long legs. Sandpipers walk on the beach and poke their beaks into the wet sand to find tiny bugs and worms to eat. They have brown or gray feathers that help them hide. Sandpipers make a nest on the ground and lay three or four eggs. The babies can walk and find food soon after they hatch.
Coast\n\nThe coast is where the land meets the sea. It is the ground right next to the ocean. You can also call it the shore or the seaside. Many animals and plants live near the coast. Some people have houses on the coast. The coast can be sandy or rocky. Sometimes the water wears away the land slowly.
Imagination\n\nImagination is the power to make pictures in your mind. You can imagine a purple elephant or a castle in the clouds. When you pretend to be a superhero or a princess, you are using your imagination. It lets you think about things that are not real or not happening right now. Everyone has imagination, and it makes playtime fun.
Text to speech\n\nText to speech is a way for computers to read words out loud. A computer uses a special program to turn written words into spoken voice. People who cannot see well or have trouble reading can use text to speech to listen to books or websites. Long ago, people built machines that could make sounds like talking. Some machines used pipes and bellows to make vowel sounds. Today, computers learn from many voice samples to sound more natural and clear.
Tasmania\n\nTasmania is a big island near Australia. It is a state of Australia, like a part of the country. The biggest city is Hobart. Long ago, Tasmania was joined to the mainland, but then water came between them. Tasmania has lots of forests and trees. One special tree is the Leatherwood tree. Rare animals live there, like the Tasmanian devil and the eastern quoll. The thylacine, a striped animal, used to live there but is gone now. People from Europe came to live on the island. Tasmania has four cities: Hobart, Launceston, Devonport, and Burnie. It is the smallest state in Australia with about 500,000 people.
Matter\n\nMatter is everything around you that takes up space and has weight. It is made of tiny pieces called atoms. Atoms are so small you cannot see them. Matter can be a solid, like a rock or ice. It can be a liquid, like water or milk. It can also be a gas, like the air you breathe. When you heat matter, the atoms move faster and spread apart. When you cool it, they slow down and get closer. Your body, your toys, your food, and even the air are all made of matter.
American bison\n\nThe American bison is a big, furry animal that looks like a cow. It has a large head with small, curving horns. Its coat is long and shaggy on the front part of its body, and shorter on the back. Bison live in open grasslands and river valleys. They eat grass and other plants. Long ago, millions of bison lived in North America. People hunted many of them, and by 1890 only about 1,000 were left. Now there are more bison again, but not as many as before. You can see them in some national parks. The bison is the national animal of the United States. Some people raise bison for their meat, which is lean and a little sweet.
Potential energy\n\nPotential energy is energy that is stored and waiting to be used. It is like a ball sitting on a high shelf. The ball has energy because it is up high, and if it falls, that energy turns into moving energy. A stretched rubber band also has potential energy. When you let go, the rubber band flies across the room. A spring that is squeezed has potential energy too. When you let it go, it pops back out. Potential energy can change into moving energy, but the total amount of energy stays the same.
Common cold\n\nThe common cold is a sickness that makes your nose and throat feel bad. It is caused by tiny germs called viruses. You can get a cold when you are near someone who has it. The cold gives you a runny nose, a sore throat, a cough, and sometimes a fever. These feelings usually go away after about a week. There is no medicine that makes the cold go away, but you can rest and drink water to feel better. Washing your hands a lot helps stop the cold from spreading.
Zoroaster\n\nZoroaster was a man who lived a very long time ago in a place called Persia. He started a religion that many people followed. People who follow this religion believe in one God and try to be good. Zoroaster is a very important person in history.
Breakfast cereal\n\nBreakfast cereal is a food you eat in the morning. It is made from grains like wheat or corn. You pour it in a bowl and add milk. Many cereals taste sweet because they have sugar or fruit in them. Some cereals are for kids, like Cheerios or Cocoa Puffs. Other cereals are for grown-ups and help them stay healthy. A long time ago, people ate meat for breakfast. Then some people wanted to eat healthier, so they made the first cereal. It was called Granula and was very hard. You had to soak it in water all night before you could eat it. Later, two men named Mr. Kellogg and Mr. Post made their own cereals and started big companies.
Zulu people\n\nThe Zulu people are a group of people who live mostly in South Africa. There are many Zulu people, more than ten million. They speak a language called Zulu. Long ago, the Zulu had their own kingdom. Today, the Zulu people are the biggest group in South Africa and have the same rights as everyone else.
Persian language\n\nPersian is a language that people speak in some countries far away. It is also called Farsi. People in Iran, Afghanistan, and Tajikistan use this language to talk to each other. Some people in Pakistan and Uzbekistan speak it too. When you hear Persian, it sounds like a song because the words go up and down.
Belarus\n\nBelarus is a country in Eastern Europe. It is a big piece of land with many trees and forests. The capital city is Minsk. About nine million people live there. Belarus has many lakes and rivers. The land is mostly flat and has some marshy places. People in Belarus speak Belarusian and Russian. Most people are Belarusian, and some are Russian, Polish, or Ukrainian. The country was part of a bigger group called the Soviet Union until 1991. Now it is its own country. Belarus has a president named Alexander Lukashenko. The country helps Russia in a war with Ukraine. Belarus is a member of the United Nations.
Mass\n\nMass is how much stuff is in something. A big rock has more mass than a small pebble. Mass is not the same as weight. Weight changes if you go to the moon, but mass stays the same. You can measure mass with a scale. The more mass something has, the harder it is to push it. Big things like planets have a lot of mass, so they pull other things toward them. That pull is called gravity. We measure mass in grams and kilograms. A small apple has about 100 grams of mass. A big bag of rice has 1 kilogram of mass.
Engine\n\nAn engine is a machine that makes things move. It uses energy to create movement. Many cars have an engine inside. The engine burns fuel like petrol to make the car go. Some engines use steam, like old trains. Other engines use electricity, like some trains and toys. Engines can be big or small. They help us travel and do work.
Karate\n\nKarate is a way of fighting that comes from Japan. People who do karate use their hands, fists, elbows, legs, and knees to move and practice. Karate is not just about being strong. It also teaches you to have a strong mind and to be polite. People who do karate wear a white jacket and white pants called a Gi. They also wear a colored belt that shows how long they have been learning. A black belt means you have tried very hard for a long time. Karate became popular all over the world because of movies. Now many children and grown-ups learn karate for fun and to stay healthy.
Lakshmi\n\nLakshmi is a goddess in the Hindu religion. She is the goddess of money, wisdom, and good luck. Many people pray to her during Diwali, a big festival in India. Lakshmi has four arms and fair skin. She sits on a lotus flower and is often surrounded by elephants. She wears lots of jewelry. Her husband is the god Vishnu.
Optics\n\nOptics is the science of light. It tells us how rainbows happen and how light bounces off mirrors. Light can bend when it goes through water or glass. A prism can split light into many colors: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and purple. Optics helps make glasses for people to see better, cameras to take pictures, telescopes to look at stars, and microscopes to see tiny things. All of these use lenses that focus light. New things are still learned in optics. Scientists made thin glass or plastic fibers that carry light very far. These fibers help send phone calls and the Internet all around the world.
Area\n\nArea is how much space a flat shape takes up. Think of a piece of paper or a floor. If you color a square on paper, the colored part is the area. Big shapes have more area than small shapes. We measure area in squares, like square feet or square meters. A square that is one foot on each side has an area of one square foot. Different shapes have different ways to find their area. For example, a circle has a lot of area but not much edge. A long skinny shape has a lot of edge but not much area.
Tasman Sea\n\nThe Tasman Sea is a big body of water between Australia and New Zealand. It is part of the Pacific Ocean. The sea was named after a man named Abel Tasman who explored it long ago. Some people call it 'The Ditch'.
Sudan\n\nSudan is a country in East Africa. Its biggest city is called Khartoum. Sudan has a sea next to it called the Red Sea. A big river called the Nile flows through Sudan and gives water to plants. Many people live in Sudan, and they are called Sudanese. Most people in Sudan speak Arabic. The most common religion in Sudan is Islam. Sudan used to be the biggest country in Africa, but part of it became a new country called South Sudan. Now Sudan is the third biggest country in Africa.
Highway\n\nA highway is a big road that helps people travel between cities and towns. Highways can have many lanes for cars to drive on. Some highways have a strip or wall in the middle to keep cars going opposite ways apart. Highways often have ramps and bridges to help cars get on and off. Many highways have numbers so people can find them easily. Sometimes too many cars on a highway make a traffic jam, which means cars have to go very slowly. Buses and special carpool lanes can help fix this problem.
Pancreas\n\nThe pancreas is a part inside your body. It is behind your tummy, on the left side. The pancreas helps break down food so your body can use it. It also makes special helpers that keep your blood healthy. If the pancreas stops working, a person can get very sick.
Trade\n\nTrade is when you give something to someone and they give you something else back. Long ago, people traded things without using money. That is called barter. Now, people often use money to buy and sell things. When you give money to get a toy, you are buying. When someone gives you money for something you made, you are selling. A place where people trade is called a market. Trade can happen between people, big companies, and even countries.
Lock (water navigation)\n\nA lock is a special place on a river or canal that helps boats go up or down when the water level changes. It is like a big box with doors at both ends. The lock can fill with water or let water out to make the boat go higher or lower. This helps boats travel even where there is a waterfall or a dam. Locks were first used a long time ago in China. Many locks are made of brick or stone.
Flax\n\nFlax is a plant with pretty flowers. People use the fibers from flax to make linen cloth. Some paper, like money paper, is also made from flax fibers. The seeds of flax can be pressed to make oil. Flax seeds are safe to eat in small amounts.
Flatworm\n\nA flatworm is a small animal with a soft, flat body. It has no bones inside. Flatworms live in water, like rivers and streams, or in damp places on land. Some flatworms are very tiny, smaller than your little finger. Many flatworms live on other animals and can make them sick. Some flatworms can hurt people, but doctors have medicine to help.
Brush\n\nA brush is a tool with bristles sticking out. Most brushes have a long handle to hold and a head that carries the bristles. We use brushes for cleaning, making hair look nice, and painting. A toothbrush is a brush for cleaning teeth. A paintbrush is for putting paint on paper or walls. Paintbrushes can be made from animal hair or man-made materials. They come in many sizes and shapes. Some brushes have wooden handles, and some have plastic handles.
Shiva\n\nShiva is a very important god in Hinduism. He is one of the three main gods, along with Brahma and Vishnu. Shiva is known as the destroyer, but he destroys bad things to make the world better. He has a blue neck because he once drank poison to save the world. Shiva has three eyes, and his third eye is on his forehead. He lives on a mountain called Mount Kailash with his wife Parvati and his two sons, Ganesha and Kartikeya. People pray to Shiva and call him by many names, like Mahadeva, which means "great god." He is often shown with a snake around his neck and a trident in his hand. Many people love Shiva because he is kind and easy to please.
Saga\n\nA saga is a long story from long ago. People in Iceland and other cold places told sagas. The sagas are about brave people who went on big boat trips and fought in battles. Some sagas are made up, and some are about real things that happened. The stories talk about families and friends and enemies. One famous saga is about a man named Njal. Sagas are fun to read because they feel like adventures.
Livestock\n\nLivestock are animals that people keep on farms. People use them for food like meat, milk, and eggs. Some livestock also give us wool for clothes. Cows, pigs, sheep, goats, and chickens are all livestock. Some big animals like horses and cows help people pull wagons. People have kept livestock for a very long time, since before there were cities. Today, most livestock live on big farms where many animals are kept together.
Weather front\n\nA weather front is where two big groups of air meet. One air group is warm and the other is cold. When they meet, it can make rain, storms, or wind. Sometimes the sky gets cloudy and rainy. After the front passes, the weather often gets clear and calm.
Puma\n\nA puma is a big wild cat. It is also called a cougar or mountain lion. Pumas live in North and South America. They are tan in color and can be very long, up to 9 feet. They cannot roar like a lion, but they can growl, hiss, and purr. Pumas eat only meat, like deer, rabbits, and squirrels. They hunt at night and are very good at sneaking up on their food. Baby pumas are called cubs. They live in mountains and forests and like to stay away from people.
Star\n\nA star is a very big ball of hot, bright stuff in space. The Sun is a star. It is the star closest to Earth. Stars give off light and heat. We see other stars in the night sky when the Sun goes down. Stars are made mostly of hydrogen. They are very old, usually billions of years. Some stars are big, some are small. The smallest stars are no bigger than a city. The biggest stars are huge. Stars are grouped into galaxies. Our galaxy is called the Milky Way. Stars help plants grow by giving light. The Earth and other planets go around the Sun. Stars can die. When a big star dies, it explodes. That is called a supernova. After a star dies, it can become a white dwarf, a neutron star, or a black hole.
Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nThe Democratic Republic of the Congo is a big country in the middle of Africa. It is the second largest country in Africa. Many people live there, more than 71 million. The capital city is Kinshasa. The country has a long river called the Congo River that flows into the Atlantic Ocean. It has big forests and parks where animals like gorillas and okapis live. The country has had many wars and fights. Some groups still fight in the east. The United Nations helps keep peace there.
Old age\n\nOld age is when a person has lived for a very long time, usually 65 years or more. Old people often stop working and spend time helping take care of little children in their family. Their skin gets wrinkly, and they move slower and feel cold more often. Old people have more health problems than young people, and many take medicine. Their bones can get weak, and some cannot see or hear well. Old people are also called elders. Many people think elders are wise because they have learned a lot in their long lives. In many places, people are kind to elders and learn from them.
Conifer\n\nConifers are plants that make seeds inside cones. Most conifers are trees, and some are small bushes. They have leaves that look like needles or scales. Conifers stay green all year long. You can find them in many places around the world, especially in cold forests called taiga. People use the wood from conifers to build houses and make paper. Some conifers are very tall, like redwoods. Others, like pines, have a nice smell. Conifers are very old plants. They were alive when dinosaurs walked on Earth.
Healthcare\n\nHealthcare is when doctors and nurses help people stay healthy or get better when they are sick. A doctor checks your body, gives you medicine, and tells you how to feel good. Hospitals are big buildings where very sick people go to get help. Doctors also help people who feel sad or worried in their mind. Keeping people healthy costs money, and different countries spend different amounts on healthcare.
Electrical generator\n\nAn electrical generator is a machine that makes electricity. It has wires that spin around inside a special magnet. When the wires spin, electricity flows through them. Some generators are small and you can turn them with your hands or feet. Bigger ones are turned by an engine. The biggest ones are in power stations and use steam or water to spin. Some generators use wind to spin. A generator turns moving energy into electricity. Some generators have a gas engine and are dangerous to use inside because they make bad air that can hurt you.
Cleveland\n\nCleveland is a big city in Ohio, United States. It sits next to a big lake called Lake Erie. Many people live there. Long ago, Cleveland was a place where trains and boats brought things to make in factories. Today, it is known for its music and sports. The Cleveland Orchestra plays beautiful music. The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame is a museum about rock music. People watch baseball with the Cleveland Indians, football with the Cleveland Browns, and basketball with the Cleveland Cavaliers. The city also has a famous hospital called the Cleveland Clinic that helps sick people get better.
Indonesian language\n\nIndonesian language is the main language of Indonesia, a country far away. People use it to talk to each other all over the country. Kids learn it in school, and it is used on TV and radio. Many people in Indonesia also speak their own family language at home. Indonesian language has words from other languages like Dutch, English, Chinese, and Arabic because people from faraway places came to trade long ago.
Bharata Natyam\n\nBharata Natyam is a special dance from India. Both boys and girls can do this dance. It tells stories from old Indian tales. The dancers move their hands and feet in careful ways. They also make faces to show feelings like happy or sad. People in India and other countries like to watch and learn this dance. It comes from a place called Tamil Nadu. A long time ago, dancers did this dance in temples. Today, many people still practice and perform Bharata Natyam.
Invertebrate\n\nAn invertebrate is an animal that does not have a backbone. Most animals in the world are invertebrates. Insects are invertebrates. They have a hard skin on the outside of their bodies instead of bones inside. Spiders, worms, and snails are also invertebrates. They come in many shapes and sizes.
Violin\n\nA violin is a wooden instrument that makes music. It has four strings and a long stick called a bow. You hold the violin under your chin and move the bow across the strings to make sound. Your left hand presses the strings to make different notes. The violin is the smallest instrument in its family and makes high sounds. People who play the violin are called violinists. Some violins are very old and cost a lot of money. The violin is used in many kinds of music, like classical, folk, and even jazz. It takes a long time to learn how to play well.
American robin\n\nThe American robin is a bird that lives in North America. It has a round body, long legs, and a long tail. Its chest is orange-red, and its back is gray-brown. The American robin sings in the morning. It eats worms, bugs, and berries. It builds a nest with grass and mud in a tree. The mother lays blue eggs. Both parents feed the babies until they can fly. You can see American robins in gardens, parks, and fields.
Taxi\n\nA taxi is a car that people can ride to go where they want. You tell the driver where you want to go, and they take you there. Taxis are different from buses because they do not stop for other people along the way. You pay money for the ride, and the price depends on how far you go. Many big cities have taxis. The first taxis were horse-drawn carriages in Paris and London a long time ago. Later, a machine called a taximeter was invented to measure how much the ride costs.
Electrical grid\n\nAn electrical grid is a big net of wires that brings electricity to your house. The wires carry power from a power plant, where electricity is made, all the way to the lights and toys you use. The grid connects many houses and buildings together so everyone can have electricity.
Civil rights movements\n\nCivil rights movements are times when many people work together to make sure everyone is treated fairly. People in these movements want all people to have the same rights, no matter what they look like or who they are. Sometimes people use peaceful ways, like marching and sitting still, to show they want change. Other times, people fight. Many of these movements helped make things better, even if they did not get everything they wanted. In the United States, black people were kept apart from white people in schools, buses, and restaurants. This was called segregation. Rosa Parks did not give up her seat on a bus to a white person, and she was arrested. Then many black people stopped riding the buses for over a year. A man named Martin Luther King, Jr. helped lead these peaceful protests. Finally, the law said black people could sit anywhere on the bus. Other movements worked for the rights of Mexican Americans, Native Americans, women, and people who love someone of the same gender.
Koala\n\nA koala is a small animal that lives in trees in Australia. It has soft gray or brown fur, a big black nose, and sharp claws for climbing. Koalas are not bears, even though they look like teddy bears. They sleep a lot, about 20 hours each day, because they eat leaves that give them very little energy. Koalas eat leaves from eucalyptus trees, which are poisonous to most animals, but koalas have special helpers in their tummy that make the poison safe. They almost never drink water because they get all the water they need from the leaves. On hot days, koalas cool down by hugging a tree trunk. A baby koala is very tiny when it is born, smaller than your thumb, and it crawls into its mother's pouch. It stays there for about a year until it is big enough to eat leaves on its own. Koalas live alone and are awake mostly at night.
Fencing\n\nFencing is a sport where two people use special swords. The goal is to touch the other person with the sword to score a point. There is a referee who watches. Fencers wear white clothes to stay safe. They wear a mask with a black mesh to protect their face. They also wear a jacket, pants, and long socks. Some swords are light and bendy, and some are heavy. Fencers try to hit different parts of the body depending on the sword they use.
Witness\n\nA witness is a person who sees something happen. When people go to court to find out the truth, witnesses tell what they saw. They promise to tell the truth. If a witness lies, that is a bad thing and they can get in trouble. Sometimes a witness has to go to court even if they do not want to.
Morse code\n\nMorse code is a way to send messages using short and long signals. Short signals are called 'dits' and long signals are called 'dahs'. People used to send Morse code with lights, sounds, or radio. For example, the letters S.O.S. are three dits, three dahs, and three dits. Ships used S.O.S. when they needed help. Today, not many people use Morse code, but some still do for fun.
Jaguar\n\nA jaguar is a big cat with spots. It lives in South America and Central America. Jaguars have yellow or orange fur with brown and black spots. Some jaguars are all black, but you can still see the spots if you look close. They are very strong and have a powerful bite. Jaguars like to stay near water and are good at swimming. They hunt alone and eat many animals like fish, birds, and even turtles. A mother jaguar has one to four babies at a time. The babies stay with her for one or two years. Jaguars can live up to 12 years in the wild and up to 22 years in a zoo.
Wildebeest\n\nA wildebeest is a big animal that lives in Africa. It has four legs and hooves, like a cow. Wildebeests eat grass. They move from place to place to find grass to eat. In May, many wildebeests walk from the grasslands to the woods. In November, they walk back. Baby wildebeests are born in the summer. Big cats like lions and cheetahs hunt wildebeests for food. Wildebeests can live for more than 20 years.
Atom\n\nAn atom is a very, very tiny piece of everything. Everything around you, like toys, water, and air, is made of atoms. Atoms are so small that you cannot see them, even with a strong magnifying glass. Scientists use special tools to learn about atoms. An atom has three main parts: protons, neutrons, and electrons. Protons and neutrons are in the middle, called the nucleus. Electrons move very fast around the nucleus. There are over 100 different kinds of atoms, called elements. Gold and carbon are examples of elements. Atoms can stick together to make bigger things, like water. A water molecule is made of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom. Atoms can also break apart, which makes energy. This happens inside stars and in nuclear power plants.
Giant panda\n\nA giant panda is a bear with black and white fur. It lives in the mountains of China. The black fur is on its ears, around its eyes, on its legs, and on its shoulders. Giant pandas eat bamboo almost all the time. They spend 10 to 16 hours each day eating bamboo. They also drink water from streams in the mountains. Baby pandas are called cubs. A cub stays with its mother for up to three years. Giant pandas are very special and protected by the Chinese government. They are in danger because people are cutting down the forests where they live.
Television\n\nA television is a machine with a screen that shows pictures and makes sounds. It can look like a box or a flat rectangle. Old TVs were big and heavy, but new TVs are light and flat. The TV gets signals from far away and turns them into shows you can watch. You can see cartoons, movies, and news on a TV. Some TVs show colors, but old ones only showed black and white. People also use TVs to play video games.
Orphan\n\nAn orphan is a child who has no mom or dad. Sometimes the parents die, and sometimes they cannot take care of the child. Some orphans live in a special house called an orphanage. Other orphans go to live with a new family. That is called adoption. Some stories have orphans, like Harry Potter and Annie.
Mirage\n\nA mirage is a trick your eyes see outside. It makes things look different from what they really are. This happens because light bends when it goes through hot and cold air. Sometimes the ground looks like it has water on it, but it is just a mirage. Other times, a ship or an island might look like it is floating in the sky. That is also a mirage. The word "mirage" comes from a word that means "to look at."
Portuguese language\n\nPortuguese is a language that people speak in many countries. It started in a place called Portugal a long time ago. Now many people speak it in Brazil, Angola, Mozambique, and other places around the world. Portuguese and English have some words that sound alike, like 'cobra' and 'mosquito.' Some English words come from Portuguese, like 'tank' and 'coconut.' People in different countries speak Portuguese a little differently, but they can still understand each other.
Polytheism\n\nPolytheism is when people believe in many gods. Long ago, the Greeks and Romans had many gods. Some people today still believe in many gods, like in Shinto or Wicca. These religions have stories about their gods, called myths. The opposite is believing in just one god.
Shipbuilding\n\nShipbuilding is the job of making big boats called ships. Long ago, people built many ships in places like Glasgow and Sunderland. Today, most ships are built in countries like South Korea and China. Japan used to build the most ships, but now it is in third place.
City-state\n\nA city-state is a city that is its own country. Long ago, there were many city-states in a place called Greece. A city-state makes its own rules and collects its own money. Today, only a few places like Singapore are city-states.
Relic\n\nA relic is a special old thing that people keep because it reminds them of someone very important. Some relics are parts of a person's body, like a tooth or a bone. Other relics are things that person used, like a cup or a piece of clothing. People treat relics with great care and respect. Many religions have relics, like the Tooth of Buddha or the Crown of Thorns. A special box that holds a relic is called a reliquary.
Boxing\n\nBoxing is a sport where two people fight in a special square called a ring. They wear big soft gloves on their hands. The fighters try to hit each other but not too hard. A fight can end when one fighter falls down and cannot get up for ten seconds. That is called a knockout. Sometimes the fight stops because one fighter is too hurt to keep going. Other times, the winner is the one who hits the other more times. If both fighters are even, the fight is a draw, like a tie. Each round is three minutes for men and two minutes for women.
Hearing\n\nHearing is how you listen to sounds. Your ears feel tiny shakes in the air called sounds. Most animals can hear. Land animals with backbones hear through their ears. Fish hear in other ways, like with a special part of their body. In animals like you, sound goes through three parts of the ear: the outside part, the middle part, and the inside part.
Legendary creature\n\nA legendary creature is a made-up animal that people tell stories about. These creatures are not real, but they are in fairy tales, myths, and old stories. Some famous ones are dragons that breathe fire, unicorns with one horn on their head, and mermaids that are half fish and half person. People have been telling stories about these creatures for a very long time.
Emu\n\nAn emu is a very tall bird that cannot fly. It lives in Australia. The emu is the second tallest bird in the world, after the ostrich. Emus have soft brown feathers that keep them cool. They have long legs with three toes on each foot. Their wings are very short and hidden under their feathers. Emus can run very fast. They eat plants, seeds, flowers, and insects. The father emu sits on the eggs until they hatch. Baby emus have stripes on their feathers that help hide them. Emus can live for 10 to 20 years.
Funeral\n\nA funeral is a special gathering when someone has died. Friends and family come together to feel sad and to remember the good things about that person. The dead body is usually in a box called a coffin. Sometimes people can see the body, and sometimes they cannot. After the funeral, the body is buried in the ground or burned into ashes. People may say a prayer to wish the person peace. Funerals can be held in a church, a temple, or another place. Some families bring pictures or favorite things to remember the person. In some places, people have different traditions, like dancing with bones or having a party to celebrate the person's life.
Town\n\nA town is a place with many houses, but it is smaller than a city and bigger than a village. People in towns often work in factories, shops, or for the town, not on farms. Some towns have a market where people buy and sell things. In different countries, the rules for what makes a town are not the same. For example, in some parts of the United States, a town is a part of a county, and people can vote at town meetings to decide things. In other places, a town is just a name for any place where many people live.
Triceratops\n\nTriceratops was a huge dinosaur that ate only plants. It lived a long time ago in North America. Its name means "three-horned face" because it had three horns on its head. Two long horns were above its eyes, and one short horn was on its nose. It also had a big bony shield behind its head to protect its neck. Triceratops was as long as a big car and as heavy as two elephants. It walked on four strong legs and had a beak like a bird to bite off leaves and plants. Its mouth was full of many teeth that helped it chew tough plants. Triceratops used its horns to fight with other dinosaurs, like the scary Tyrannosaurus. Sometimes Triceratops got hurt but then got better. Baby Triceratops were called hatchlings and grew up to be big and strong.
Maple\n\nA maple is a kind of tree or bush. Maple trees have leaves with sharp points. The leaves turn bright colors in the fall. Maple trees grow in many places like Asia, Europe, and North America. Maple trees make a special fruit that spins like a helicopter when it falls. People plant maple trees in cities because they look pretty. Some maple trees give us sweet syrup for pancakes. The flag of Canada has a maple leaf on it.
Antarctica\n\nAntarctica is the coldest place on Earth. It is at the very bottom of the world, near the South Pole. Almost all of Antarctica is covered by a thick layer of ice. No people live there all the time, but some scientists stay for a while to study. The animals that live there are penguins, seals, and tiny bugs. Penguins are birds that cannot fly, but they swim very well. They have black and white feathers that keep them warm. The biggest penguins can be as tall as a four-year-old child. Antarctica is also very dry, like a desert, and very windy. It is a special place where only animals and plants that like cold can live.
Storm\n\nA storm is very strong weather with a lot of rain and wind. Sometimes there is also hail, which is ice that falls from the sky, and lightning, which is a big flash of light. Thunder is the loud noise that comes with lightning. Some storms are so strong they have special names, like hurricane or tornado. Storms can happen in many places and can be very powerful.
Transformer\n\nA transformer is a machine that moves electricity from one wire to another without the wires touching. It uses a special force called a magnetic field to do this. Transformers come in many sizes. Some are tiny and live inside microphones. Others are huge and help send electricity all over the city. The main job of a transformer is to change the push of electricity. High push is good for sending electricity far away. Low push is safe for your home. You can see transformers on power poles in your neighborhood. They take the strong electricity from the big wires and make it weaker so it can run your lights, TV, and refrigerator. Inside your toys and computers, tiny transformers help give each part the right amount of electricity.
Bone fracture\n\nA bone fracture is when a bone gets a crack or breaks. Bones are usually very strong, but if something hits them too hard, they can break. Sometimes the broken bone stays inside the skin, and sometimes it pokes through the skin. When the bone pokes through, it can let germs in and cause an ouchie. Doctors take a picture called an X-ray to see the break. To fix it, they line up the broken pieces and keep them still so the bone can grow back together. It takes about 6 to 8 weeks for a bone to heal.
Central Park\n\nCentral Park is a very big park in New York City. It is in a part of the city called Manhattan. Many people visit Central Park every year. The park has lakes, a castle, a zoo, and a big museum. You can walk, run, or ride a bike there. There are also playgrounds and fields to play on. Central Park is so big that it is bigger than some small countries. Many movies and TV shows show Central Park.
Algae\n\nAlgae are plant-like living things that make their own food from sunlight. They are very old and lived long before other plants. Algae can be very small, with just one cell, or very big, like seaweed in the ocean. They live in wet places like ponds, lakes, and the sea. Some algae float in the water and are called phytoplankton. Many fish and sea animals eat algae. Some algae grow into big underwater forests called kelp forests. These forests give homes to sea otters, sea urchins, and other animals. People also use some algae as food or to make things like jelly. Sometimes too many algae grow and make a big green or red patch on the water. This can be bad for fish.
Spine\n\nYour spine is the long row of bones in the middle of your back. It is also called your backbone. The spine helps you stand up straight and bend. Inside the spine is a special tube that holds your nerves. Animals with a spine are called vertebrates. You are a vertebrate because you have a spine. Sometimes people get a sore back, and that can hurt.
Catapult\n\nA catapult is a big machine that throws heavy rocks or other things through the air. Long ago, people used catapults to break castle walls or set things on fire. A catapult works by using a heavy weight and a long arm to fling things far away. Today, catapults are not used for fighting anymore. You can see old catapults in museums. Some people build small catapults for fun or for school experiments. Big ships called aircraft carriers use a special kind of catapult to help airplanes take off.
Colour theory\n\nColour theory is a set of ideas about how colors work together. It helps us mix colors and make pretty pictures. There are three main colors called primary colors: red, yellow, and blue. When you mix two primary colors, you get a secondary color. For example, mixing yellow and blue makes green. Mixing red and blue makes purple. Mixing red and yellow makes orange. Colors can look different depending on the light. A yellow toy might look green or brown next to a bright white wall. Paint colors mix differently than light colors. You cannot make brown by mixing colored lights. Color theory helps artists and people who design things choose colors that look nice together.
Greek alphabet\n\nThe Greek alphabet is a set of 24 letters used to write the Greek language. People also use Greek letters in math and science to stand for numbers or ideas. Many letters in the Greek alphabet look like letters in the English alphabet. The Greek alphabet is very old, and many other alphabets came from it. Long ago, the Greeks borrowed letters from another alphabet and changed them to fit their own language. They also added special marks to show how to say words. Today, the Greek alphabet is still used in Greece.
Pastry\n\nPastry is a kind of dough that people use to make baked foods. Dough is a soft mix of flour, butter, sugar, milk, and eggs. You roll it flat and then bake it in the oven. Pastry can be used to make pies, tarts, and little cakes. Some pastries are sweet, and some are not sweet. Many people like to eat pastries for a treat.
Conceptual art\n\nConceptual art is a kind of art where the idea is more important than how it looks. Sometimes the artist writes down instructions for anyone to follow to make the art. This art can be made of words or things you find around you. It asks questions like 'What is art?' and 'Who can be an artist?' Conceptual artists do not always paint or make sculptures. They might use words, photos, or everyday objects to share their ideas.
Mango\n\nA mango is a fruit that grows on a tree. It is very sweet when it is ripe, but it tastes sour before it is ready to eat. Mangoes come in many different kinds, like Alphonso. They grow in warm places like India and Pakistan. People eat mangoes as a snack or in desserts. The tree that grows mangoes can also be used to make wood for things like furniture and musical instruments.
Lebanon\n\nLebanon is a country next to the Mediterranean Sea. It is in the Middle East. Lebanon has mountains and a long coast. The capital city is Beirut. Many people live in Lebanon. The official language is Arabic. The cedar tree is a special symbol of Lebanon because many cedar trees grow in the mountains.
Polish language\n\nPolish is a language that people speak in Poland. It is the main language there. Many people also speak Polish in other countries like the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Polish has some letters that look like English letters but have marks above or below them. Some Polish sounds are different from English. For example, Polish "w" sounds like English "v". Polish words are said with a little more force on the second-to-last part. You can say "Dzień dobry" for "Good morning" and "Cześć" for "Hi" or "Bye".
Pope\n\nA pope is the leader of the Catholic Church. He lives in a small country called Vatican City. The pope wears special white clothes and a tall hat. He is chosen by cardinals, who are important church helpers. Once chosen, the pope is the leader for a very long time, sometimes for his whole life. The pope travels to many countries to talk about peace and love. He is protected by guards wearing colorful uniforms. People call him 'father' because the word 'pope' means father in an old language.
History of the Earth\n\nThe history of the Earth is the story of how our planet came to be and changed over a very, very long time. Earth is very old—about 4.56 billion years old. That is much older than any person or animal. A long time ago, Earth was not here yet. It started as a big, spinning cloud of dust and gas in space. The dust and gas slowly came together to make Earth. At first, Earth was very hot, like a big ball of melted rock. Then, a giant rock from space hit Earth. That crash made a lot of dust and rock fly into space, and that dust and rock came together to make the Moon. The Moon is our big, round neighbor in the sky. After that, Earth cooled down and got a hard outer shell. The first tiny living things appeared in the water about 3.5 billion years ago. They were very small, like little blobs. Over millions of years, more and more kinds of plants and animals grew on Earth. The land moved around, and big pieces called continents slowly drifted. Today, Earth has oceans, land, air, and many living things, including people.
Mulberry\n\nA mulberry is a kind of tree. It grows in warm places in Asia, Africa, and the Americas. The tree has leaves that are simple and sometimes have bumps. The fruit grows in bunches and is red or dark purple. You can eat the fruit, and it tastes sweet. People use the fruit to make pies, tarts, and wine. The leaves of the white mulberry tree are food for silkworms. Silkworms make silk from their cocoons. The white mulberry tree can shoot its pollen very fast, faster than any other plant.
Fly\n\nA fly is a small insect that can fly. It has two wings on its body and two tiny knobs that help it balance in the air. Flies have big eyes that let them see all around. They are very fast fliers and can dodge and turn quickly to escape from danger. A fly starts as an egg, then becomes a grub that eats a lot, then turns into a pupa, and finally becomes an adult fly. There are many kinds of flies all over the world.
Malay Peninsula\n\nThe Malay Peninsula is a big piece of land that sticks out into the ocean in Southeast Asia. It is long and narrow, like a finger. Three different parts of the peninsula belong to different countries. Many people live there, and the land is covered with green forests and warm beaches.
Party\n\nA party is when people get together to have fun. Sometimes a party is for a birthday, a holiday, or just because. At a party, there are friends, games, and yummy food. People laugh, talk, and play together. Some parties have balloons, music, and cake. A party makes everyone feel happy.
Pink\n\nPink is a light red color. You can make pink paint by mixing red paint with white paint. Pink is a very easy color to make. Many flowers are pink, like roses. Some people like to wear pink clothes. Pink can be a soft and pretty color.
Harrow (tool)\n\nA harrow is a farm tool that breaks up dirt on the ground. It makes the soil smooth and soft for planting seeds. A plow digs deep into the dirt, but a harrow works on the top. It breaks up big clumps of dirt and takes out weeds. Some harrows have round metal discs, and some have teeth or chains. Long ago, horses or people pulled harrows. Now, tractors pull them. Farmers use harrows to get the soil ready for planting.
Swan\n\nA swan is a big water bird that lives on ponds, lakes, and rivers. Swans have long necks, big feet, and large wings. Most swans are white, but some are black or have black necks. They eat plants from the bottom of the water, and also eat bugs and small animals. A baby swan is called a cygnet. Swans are very strong and protect their babies. They can fly very far to find warm places in winter.
Quiz\n\nA quiz is a game where you answer questions. You can play by yourself or with a team. Each right answer gives you points. The person with the most points wins. Teachers sometimes use quizzes to help you learn new things.
Hiking\n\nHiking is walking outside in nature, like in the woods or on a mountain. Some people hike for one day and come back home before dark. Other people hike for many days and sleep outside. Hikers like to see pretty trees, flowers, and animals. They also like to breathe fresh air. Before a hike, you need to plan. You should look at a map and check the weather. You need to bring water, food, and a backpack. It is safer to hike with a friend, not alone. If you get lost, stop and use a map or a compass to find your way.
Natural History Museum\n\nThe Natural History Museum is a big place in London where you can see lots of things from nature. It has huge collections of rocks, bones of old animals called fossils, and stuffed animals and plants. You can see a giant dinosaur skeleton there. The museum also has scientists who study these things. It is one of the biggest museums of its kind in Britain.
Atmosphere of Earth\n\nThe atmosphere of Earth is the air all around our planet. It is made of gases that stay close to Earth because of gravity. The air we breathe has mostly nitrogen and oxygen. There is also a little bit of argon, carbon dioxide, and water vapor. The atmosphere protects us from the sun's hot rays. It keeps our days from getting too hot and our nights from getting too cold. The air gets thinner the higher you go. Most of the air is near the ground. The atmosphere has different layers, like an onion. Near the ground, the air is thick and cold. Higher up, in the stratosphere, there is a special layer called the ozone layer that blocks harmful sun rays. Even higher, the air is very thin and only light gases like helium and hydrogen are left. The atmosphere also has tiny bits of dust and ash that help make clouds and fog.
Second\n\nA second is a very short amount of time. It is how we measure time. There are 60 seconds in one minute. One heartbeat of a grown-up at rest lasts about one second. Scientists use a special kind of clock to measure a second very exactly. That clock counts how fast a tiny thing called an atom wiggles. The atom wiggles about 9 billion times in one second. A second is so short that you can say "one second" in the time it takes.
Old World vulture\n\nOld World vultures are big birds that eat dead animals. They are in the same bird family as eagles and hawks. These vultures find their food only by looking with their eyes. They have bald heads with no long feathers. This helps them stay clean when they eat. Some vultures eat fruit from palm trees instead of dead animals.
Molecule\n\nA molecule is the smallest piece of a thing that can still be that thing. If you break it into even smaller pieces, it becomes something else. Molecules are made of tiny parts called atoms that stick together. In air, molecules fly around. In water, they are stuck together but can still move. In sugar, they only wiggle in place. Atoms stick together by sharing tiny bits called electrons. When you heat a molecule, the atoms move more and the bond can break. Some molecules give off energy when they break, like a candle that burns.
History of Christianity\n\nThe history of Christianity is about how the Christian religion began and grew. It started with a man named Jesus and his twelve friends, called apostles. Jesus lived a long time ago in a place called Judea. After Jesus died, his friends told everyone about him. At first, only Jewish people followed Jesus, but soon other people did too. The followers were called Christians. For a long time, the Roman leaders did not like Christians and sometimes hurt them. But later, a Roman emperor named Constantine said people could be Christians. Then another emperor made Christianity the main religion of Rome. Over time, Christianity spread to many places around the world. Today it is the biggest religion. Christians believe in one God and that Jesus is God's son. They go to church, sing songs, and pray. They have special books called the Bible, which has two parts: the Old Testament and the New Testament.
Landform\n\nA landform is a shape on the ground. Some landforms are big, and some are small. Hills, mountains, valleys, and plains are all landforms. A hill is a bump of land. A mountain is a very tall hill. A valley is the low land between hills. A plain is flat land. Water can make landforms by moving dirt and rocks. Wind can also change the shape of land over a long time.
Tunisia\n\nTunisia is a country in Africa, near the Mediterranean Sea. The capital city is Tunis. Many people live in Tunisia and speak a language called Tunisian Arabic. The country has a big desert called the Sahara, and also green land where farmers grow fruits and vegetables. People visit Tunisia to see the beach and the desert. Tunisia became its own country in 1956.
Gazelle\n\nA gazelle is a kind of animal that lives in Africa and Asia. It has long legs and can run very fast for a long time. Gazelles live in big groups called herds. They eat grass and leaves from plants. When a lion or cheetah chases them, they run slowly and jump high in the air. That is how they get away.
Paran River\n\nThe Paran River is a very long river in South America. It flows through Brazil, Paraguay, and Argentina. It is the second longest river in South America, after the Amazon River. The name Paran means "like the sea" in an old language. The river starts in Brazil where two smaller rivers join together. It flows south and joins other rivers before reaching the big ocean. People fish for surub and sbalo in the river. There are big dams on the river that make electricity.
Seahorse\n\nA seahorse is a small fish that lives in warm ocean water. Its head looks like a horse's head, and that is how it got its name. Seahorses can change color to hide from other animals. The daddy seahorse is special because he carries the eggs in a pouch on his belly until the babies are ready to come out. When the babies are born, they are very tiny and have to take care of themselves. Seahorses swim standing up and use their curly tail to hold onto plants in the water.
Hagia Sophia\n\nHagia Sophia is a big building in Istanbul, Turkey. It was first a church a long time ago, then it became a mosque, and later it was a museum. Now it is a mosque again. The building has a very big round roof called a dome. The walls and floor are very old, and there are pretty pictures made of tiny colored stones on the walls. Many people visit Hagia Sophia to see how old and beautiful it is.
World Wide Web\n\nThe World Wide Web is a part of the Internet where you can look at websites and webpages. It was made by a man named Tim Berners-Lee in 1989. He wanted scientists to share papers easily. To see the Web, you need a computer or phone with a web browser like Chrome or Safari. The browser asks a web server for a page, and the server sends it back. Web pages are written in a special code called HTML. They can have words, pictures, videos, and links. When you click a link, it takes you to another page. The Web helps people learn, play, and talk to each other.
Truffle\n\nA truffle is a special kind of mushroom that grows underground, near the roots of trees like oak and hazel. Truffles smell very strong and taste yummy, so people use them in cooking to make food taste better. Some truffles are black and some are white. They are very hard to find, so they cost a lot of money. People use trained dogs or pigs to sniff out truffles from the ground. The pigs like truffles because they smell like another pig. Black truffles grow in winter, and white truffles grow in autumn. The biggest truffle ever found was as heavy as a small dog.
Brick\n\nA brick is a hard block that people use to build walls and walkways. Bricks are made mostly from clay, which is a kind of dirt. The clay is shaped into a brick and then baked in a very hot oven until it becomes hard. Bricks can be different colors, like red, brown, or gray, depending on the clay. Workers called masons stack bricks on top of each other and stick them together with a special paste called mortar. Bricks have been used for a very long time, even thousands of years ago. They are strong and last a long time, especially when they are baked. Most bricks are about the same size so that a worker can hold one in one hand.
Gender\n\nGender is a word about how people show if they feel more like a boy, a girl, or something else. Long ago, people only used the word 'gender' for words in sentences, not for people. Now, some people use 'gender' to talk about how they feel inside, and 'sex' to talk about their body. A person's gender can be different from their body. Some people feel like a boy, some feel like a girl, and some feel like both or neither. People can show their gender by the clothes they wear, the way they talk, and the things they like to do. Many years ago, most people thought there were only two genders: boy and girl. But now, more people know that there are many ways to be. Some people use the word 'they' for someone who does not feel like a boy or a girl. Everyone gets to choose how they want to be called.
Yeast\n\nYeast is a tiny living thing that is too small to see with just your eyes. It is a kind of fungus, like the stuff that grows on old bread. Yeast likes to eat sugar. When it eats sugar, it makes bubbles of gas. People put yeast in bread dough, and the bubbles make the bread get big and fluffy. Yeast is also used to make some drinks. Most yeast makes more yeast by making a little bud that grows into a new yeast.
Taro\n\nTaro is a plant that people eat as a vegetable. The part we eat is the stem, which grows under the ground. People also eat the leaves. Taro grows in places like islands in the ocean. Long ago, people started growing taro as one of the first plants they took care of. You must cook taro before you eat it, because it is not safe to eat raw. After cooking, it is soft and good to eat.
Indian philosophy\n\nIndian philosophy is the way people in India think about big questions like what is real and how to live. These ideas are very old, from more than two thousand years ago. Some of these philosophies believe in old holy books called the Vedas, and some do not. The ones that believe in the Vedas are called stika, and the ones that do not are called nstika. Buddhism and Jainism are two famous philosophies that do not follow the Vedas. People who study Indian philosophy talk about many things, like how to be good, what happens after we die, and how to find peace.
Smoking (cooking)\n\nSmoking is a way to cook food so it stays good longer. People use it for meat and fish. The food is put near the smoke from a fire. The smoke takes some water out of the food and gives it a yummy taste. Smoking also changes how the food feels in your mouth.
Bolero\n\nBolero is a kind of slow music and dance. People move slowly and gently to the music. The music is played with a guitar. Dancers hold each other and step together. It comes from Spain and Cuba.
Vikings\n\nVikings were people from far north in Europe, from places called Norway, Sweden, and Denmark. They were very good at building boats called longships. These boats could go in shallow water, so Vikings could travel up rivers and attack towns. They raided many places in Europe, like England and France, from about 700 to 1100 years ago. Vikings were strong fighters and people were scared of them. Some Vikings settled in new lands and started farms and villages. They also traveled across the ocean to Iceland, Greenland, and even to a place in Canada. Vikings had many gods, like Odin and Thor. They celebrated a holiday called Yuletide, which later became Christmas. Real Vikings did not wear helmets with horns, even though some stories show them that way.
Demeter\n\nDemeter is a make-believe goddess from old Greek stories. She took care of plants and helped farmers grow food like wheat and bread. Demeter had a daughter named Persephone. One day, a king of the underworld took Persephone away. Demeter was very sad, and the earth became cold and nothing would grow. When Persephone came back, the earth got warm and plants grew again. That is why we have seasons: winter when Demeter is sad, and summer when she is happy.
History of Australia\n\nThe history of Australia is a very long story. The first people lived in Australia more than 65,000 years ago. They are called Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders. They hunted animals, fished in the water, and picked food from the land. They made special tools like the boomerang and the spear. They told stories about how the world was made, called the Dreamtime. They painted these stories on rocks and walls. They also made music with a special instrument called the didgeridoo.\n\nLater, people from Europe came to Australia on big ships. The first was a Dutch explorer in 1606. Then in 1770, a British sailor named Captain James Cook found the east coast and said it belonged to Britain. The British sent ships with people who had been in jail to live in Australia. These people were called convicts. The first ships came in 1788. Life was very hard at first because there was not much food. But soon people started farms and towns grew. People found gold in 1851, and many people came to look for it. Some became very rich.\n\nOver time, the people in Australia wanted to make their own rules. They started voting for their leaders. In 1901, all the parts of Australia came together as one country. In the 21st century, Julia Gillard became the first woman to be the leader of Australia.
Great Dividing Range\n\nThe Great Dividing Range is a very long line of mountains in Australia. It runs all along the east side of the country, from the north to the south. These mountains are not just one big mountain; they are many hills, flat places, and steep cliffs all together. The mountains make the clouds drop lots of rain on the east side, so the land there is green and wet. The highest mountain in the range is called Mount Kosciuszko, and it is very tall. Many parts of the range are inside parks where people can walk, play, and see animals.
Taj Mahal\n\nThe Taj Mahal is a big, beautiful building in India. It is made of white stone and looks like a giant palace with a round top. A king named Shah Jahan built it a long time ago for his wife. Many people visit the Taj Mahal every year because it is so pretty. The building looks pink in the morning, yellow in the evening, and gold at night. But the air is making it turn yellow, and that is not good for the building.
Mayonnaise\n\nMayonnaise is a thick, creamy sauce. It is made from oil and egg yolk, with a little lemon juice or vinegar. People put it on sandwiches, salads, and french fries to make them taste good.
Water cycle\n\nThe water cycle is how water moves around the Earth. Water goes up into the sky from the ground and from rivers and oceans. It makes clouds. Then the water falls back down as rain or snow. The rain fills up rivers and lakes. Then the water goes up again. This keeps happening over and over. Water is very important for all living things on Earth.
Speech\n\nSpeech is when people talk to each other. Only people can talk. Animals make sounds, but they do not talk like we do. When you speak, sounds come from your throat and are shaped by your mouth, tongue, teeth, and lips. Sometimes people have trouble speaking, and a helper can teach them how to talk better.
Slang\n\nSlang are special words that some people use. Different groups of people have their own slang. For example, kids might use words that grown-ups do not understand. Grown-ups might use old words that kids think are funny. Over time, slang words can become normal words that everyone uses. Some slang words are short, like 'wassup' for 'how are you?' and 'dunno' for 'I don't know'.
Mockingbird\n\nA mockingbird is a bird that can sing many different songs. It copies the sounds of other birds, bugs, and frogs. It sings loud and fast. Mockingbirds live in warm places. They have gray feathers and a long tail.
North Macedonia\n\nNorth Macedonia is a country in Europe. It is on a big piece of land called the Balkan peninsula. The country has many mountains and lakes. The capital city is Skopje. People there speak Macedonian. Some people also speak Albanian. The money they use is called the denar. North Macedonia used to be part of a bigger country called Yugoslavia. It became its own country in 1991. It is a member of NATO and wants to join the European Union. The country has a president and a parliament where people vote for leaders.
Asthma\n\nAsthma is a sickness that makes it hard to breathe. Inside your lungs, there are small tubes called airways. When a person has asthma, these tubes get tight and swollen. The body also makes extra sticky stuff called mucus that blocks the tubes. This makes it hard for air to get in and out. A person having an asthma attack may make a whistling sound called wheezing. They may also cough a lot or feel like their chest is being squeezed. Many children get asthma, and it often gets better as they grow up. There is no cure for asthma, but doctors can give medicine to help people breathe easier. Things like dust, smoke, or pets can make asthma worse. If you have asthma, you can learn how to stay safe and breathe well.
The Bahamas\n\nThe Bahamas is a group of many islands in the warm Caribbean Sea. The islands are low and flat, and the weather is hot most of the year. The capital city is Nassau, on an island called New Providence. Many people visit The Bahamas for holidays because the water is blue and the beaches are sandy. The people there speak English. The Bahamas does not have an army, but it has a small navy with boats that patrol the water.
Mars\n\nMars is a planet in our sky. It is the fourth planet from the Sun. Mars is called the Red Planet because it looks red. The ground on Mars is red because of rust in the rocks and dust. Mars is made of rock, like Earth. It has the biggest mountain in the whole solar system, called Olympus Mons. That mountain is very, very tall. Mars also has a very big canyon called Valles Marineris. Mars has two tiny moons named Phobos and Deimos. A day on Mars is a little longer than a day on Earth. Mars has four seasons, just like Earth, but each season is longer. The air on Mars is very thin and has almost no oxygen. It is mostly carbon dioxide. Mars is very cold because it is far from the Sun. There is ice made of water at the north and south poles. Long ago, there was probably liquid water on Mars. In 2024, scientists found water deep under the ground on Mars. Mars has many craters from rocks that hit it. Sometimes pieces of Mars fly to Earth as meteorites.
Credit card\n\nA credit card is a small plastic card that lets you buy things without using cash. When you pay with a credit card, you borrow money from a bank. You have to pay that money back later. If you do not pay on time, you have to pay extra money called interest. Each card has a special number and a date. Many cards have a tiny chip that helps pay safely. You can use a credit card in stores and on the computer. Some cards give you points or money back when you buy things. But you must be careful not to borrow too much, or you will have to pay a lot extra.
Europe\n\nEurope is a big piece of land on Earth. It is next to the Atlantic Ocean on one side and the Arctic Ocean on another. Many countries are in Europe, like France, Germany, and Italy. People from all over the world visit Europe to see old buildings and pretty places. Some parts of Europe are very cold and snowy in winter, while other parts are warm. The name Europe comes from a story about a princess called Europa. Many people live in Europe, and they speak different languages and eat different foods.
National Basketball Association\n\nThe National Basketball Association, or NBA, is a big group of basketball teams. There are 30 teams, 29 in the United States and 1 in Canada. The NBA has the best basketball players in the world. They are very tall, about 6 feet 6 inches. The season starts in October and ends in April. Each team plays 82 games. The best players play in a special game called the All-Star Game in February. After the season, the playoffs start. Eight teams from the east and eight from the west play games. The winners of each side play in the NBA Finals. The team that wins the finals is the champion. The Boston Celtics have won the most championships, 18. The Los Angeles Lakers have won 17.
Spring (season)\n\nSpring is the time of year after winter and before summer. The days get longer and the weather gets warmer. In many places, it rains a lot in spring. The rain helps plants grow and flowers bloom. Many animals have their babies in spring. Some people get sneezy because of tiny bits from plants called pollen. At the start of spring, day and night are the same length. People celebrate holidays like Easter and Passover in spring. School in spring is called spring semester, and some kids get a vacation called spring break.
Rural area\n\nA rural area is a place that is not a city or a town. It is often called "the country" or "countryside." People live in small villages or far away from other houses. Many people grow food on farms there. City people like to visit rural areas to relax and have fun on holidays.
Dragon\n\nA dragon is a make-believe animal that lives in stories. Dragons are in tales from China, Europe, South America, and many other places. Some dragons have wings and can fly. Some dragons breathe fire. You can see dragons in movies and books like 'How to Train Your Dragon' and 'Harry Potter'. In some stories, dragons are friendly and help people. In other stories, dragons are scary.
Inequality\n\nInequality is a math word that means two things are not the same. When you compare numbers, you can say one is bigger or smaller than the other. For example, 5 is bigger than 3. We use special signs like < and > to show this. Sometimes you have to solve a puzzle to find which numbers make the statement true. If you multiply or divide by a minus number, you have to flip the sign. You can draw the answer on a number line with a circle.
Lung\n\nA lung is a part inside your body that helps you breathe. Most animals with a backbone have two lungs. When you breathe in, air goes into your lungs. Your lungs take the good part of the air, called oxygen, and send it into your blood. Then your blood carries the oxygen to all parts of your body. When you breathe out, your lungs push out the bad air, called carbon dioxide. Your lungs are soft and spongy. They are inside your chest, one on each side. Birds have lungs too, but they are smaller and work a little differently. Frogs have simple lungs and can also breathe through their wet skin.
Niger River\n\nThe Niger River is a very long river in western Africa. It is shaped like a crescent moon. The river starts in Guinea and flows through Mali, Niger, and Nigeria before it reaches the sea. It is the third longest river in Africa. The Niger River floods every year, which helps people fish and grow food. The river has a special part called the Niger Inland Delta, where it spreads out into many streams and lakes. The countries Nigeria and Niger got their names from this river.
Museum\n\nA museum is a building where people can see special things from the past and from all over the world. Museums keep old things safe and show them to visitors. You can see paintings, old tools, dinosaur bones, and many other cool things. Some museums let you touch and play with things. People go to museums to learn and have fun. A zoo is a kind of museum with live animals.
Conservation of energy\n\nEnergy is what makes things move, grow, and change. You cannot make new energy, and you cannot use it up. Energy can only change from one kind to another. For example, when you eat food, your body turns that food into energy to run and play. When you turn on a light, electrical energy changes into light and heat. A ball held up high has stored energy, and when you drop it, that energy turns into movement. Energy is always there, just changing forms.
Bedbug\n\nA bedbug is a very small bug that lives in houses. It likes to hide in beds and sleep near people. At night, when people are asleep, the bedbug comes out and bites them to drink their blood. The bite makes a small itchy spot, like a mosquito bite. Bedbugs are hard to see because they are tiny and stay hidden.
Walk\n\nWalking is how people and animals move around using their legs. When you walk, one foot is on the ground and the other is in the air. Walking is slower than running. When you go outside to walk, you can say you 'went for a walk'. Walking fast or for a long time is good exercise and keeps your body healthy. Most babies learn to walk when they are about one year old.
Red blood cell\n\nRed blood cells are tiny cells in your blood that carry oxygen. They are red because they have something inside called hemoglobin. Red blood cells look like little round donuts, but without a hole in the middle. They pick up oxygen from your lungs and take it to every part of your body. Your body has many millions of red blood cells. They help you stay alive and strong.
Cargo\n\nCargo is stuff that people move from one place to another. It is carried in big trucks, trains, airplanes, or ships. Cargo can be toys, food, clothes, or anything else. The things are often packed in big boxes called containers. A place where cargo is loaded or unloaded is called a cargo terminal.
Breakup\n\nA breakup is when two people who love each other stop being together. It can happen when one person is not happy, or when both are not happy. After a breakup, people might feel sad for a while. It takes time to feel better.
Baffin Bay\n\nBaffin Bay is a big body of water between Baffin Island and Greenland. It is part of the Atlantic Ocean. The water is very cold and covered with ice most of the year. Big pieces of ice called icebergs float in the bay. Many animals live there, like beluga whales, walruses, narwhals, seals, and polar bears. Birds like snowy owls and little auks also live near the bay. People have lived near Baffin Bay for a very long time. A man named William Baffin wrote about the bay a long time ago, and that is how it got its name.
Horror fiction\n\nHorror fiction is a story that is meant to scare you. Some horror stories have ghosts and monsters that are not real. Other horror stories are about scary things that can happen in real life, like bad people or sickness. People read or watch horror to feel a little bit scared, but they know it is just a story.
Wedge\n\nA wedge is a tool that is thick on one end and thin on the other. You can use it to push things apart. For example, you can put the thin end of a wedge between two pieces of wood and hit the thick end to split them. A doorstop is a kind of wedge that keeps a door open. An axe is also a wedge that can cut wood.
Dominoes\n\nDominoes is a game you play with small flat tiles. Each tile has a line in the middle and black dots on each side. Some sides have no dots. You match the dots to play the game.
Physical fitness\n\nPhysical fitness means your body is strong and can move well. It helps you run, jump, and play without getting too tired. Some people, like firefighters and soldiers, need to be very fit for their jobs. To be fit, you need to exercise your heart and muscles, stretch your body, and eat good food. Being fit keeps you healthy and happy.
Sausage\n\nSausage is a food made from ground-up meat. People mix the meat with spices and put it inside a thin skin. Some sausages are long and thin, like hot dogs. Others are short and round. You can eat sausage for breakfast, lunch, or dinner. It can be in a sandwich or in a stew. Some sausages are made from beef, pork, or chicken. There are also sausages made without meat, like tofu sausages. Germany has many special kinds of sausages.
Surfing\n\nSurfing is a fun water sport in the ocean. A surfer stands on a long board called a surfboard and rides on top of a big wave. The wave pushes the surfer toward the beach. Surfing started a very long time ago in Hawaii. People all over the world like to surf, especially in places with big waves. Surfers wear swimsuits and sometimes a wetsuit to stay warm. It takes practice to balance on the board and ride the wave.
Swordfish\n\nA swordfish is a big fish with a long, flat nose that looks like a sword. It has a smooth body and can swim very fast. The swordfish uses its sword nose to hit other fish and make them hurt, so it can eat them. People like to catch swordfish for fun and for food. The meat is cut into big pieces and cooked on a grill. But grown-ups say not to eat too much swordfish because it has something inside that can be bad for you.
Sperm whale\n\nA sperm whale is a very big animal that lives in the ocean. It is the biggest whale with teeth. Its head is huge, bigger than any other animal's head. A sperm whale has a big brain too. It eats meat like squid and fish. It dives deep down in the ocean to find food and can stay underwater for a long time. Sperm whales make clicking sounds to find their way and talk to each other.
Atmospheric science\n\nAtmospheric science is about the air all around us. It studies the sky, clouds, wind, and weather. Scientists who study the air use special tools like weather balloons and satellites to learn about temperature and wind. They help us know if it will be sunny or rainy.
Chord\n\nA chord is when you play two or more notes at the same time. Some people say a chord needs three notes. When you play only two notes together, it is called a double stop. You can play chords on many instruments like the piano, guitar, or xylophone. A violin player can make a chord by bowing two strings at once. Some wind instruments can also make chords by playing more than one sound at a time.
Monastery\n\nA monastery is a place where monks live. Monks are people who spend their time praying and helping others. They do not get married and do not own things like toys or money. Everything they use belongs to the monastery. Some monasteries are far away from towns, and monks grow their own food. Other monasteries are near towns, and monks help by teaching or taking care of sick people. Many monasteries have a chapel where monks pray.
Confucianism\n\nConfucianism is a way of thinking that comes from a wise man named Confucius, who lived a long time ago in China. It teaches people how to be good to each other. The most important thing is to respect your mom and dad, older people, and your family members who lived before you. Confucius said we should always keep learning new things, because there is always more to know. He even learned from a little kid once! Confucianism also says that families are like the building blocks of a whole town or country. When people are kind and help each other, everyone can live together in peace. Today, many people in China and around the world still follow these ideas.
Maasai\n\nThe Maasai are a group of people who live in Kenya and Tanzania. They wear bright clothes and beads. They live near big parks where many animals live. The Maasai have cows, and the more cows a man has, the richer he is. They drink cow's blood because they think it makes them strong. The women build houses called Manyatta. The men build fences to keep lions out. Maasai boys jump over fire and hunt lions to become men. The Maasai speak a language called Maa.
Cairo\n\nCairo is a big city in Egypt. It is the capital, which means it is the most important city in the country. Cairo sits next to a long river called the Nile. The weather is hot and sunny almost every day. Many people live in Cairo, more than in most other cities in Africa. Outside the city, you can see the great pyramids of Giza, which are huge stone buildings from long ago. There is also a museum in Cairo that holds old treasures from the time of the pharaohs, including things from King Tutankhamun's tomb.
Surface tension\n\nSurface tension is when the top of water feels like a very thin, strong skin. This skin can hold up small things that are light. Some bugs, like water striders, can walk on top of the water because of this skin. Water drops are round because the skin pulls them into a ball shape. You can see surface tension when rain makes little round beads on a leaf. Soap can break the skin, which is why soap helps wash things clean.
Saxophone\n\nA saxophone is a musical instrument that you blow into to make sounds. It has a small piece of wood inside called a reed that shakes when you blow air. The saxophone has many keys that you press to make different notes. Some saxophones are big and some are small. People play the saxophone in bands and in jazz music. It was made a long time ago by a man named Adolphe Sax.
Sales\n\nSales is when someone sells things to get money. A person who sells things is called a salesman. Salespeople talk to people who might want to buy what they are selling. They try to help those people find what they need. Sometimes the buyer says no, but the salesperson keeps trying to explain why the thing is good. Sales and marketing work together to help a company do well.
Lie\n\nA lie is something someone says that is not true. People tell lies on purpose to hide something or get something. Sometimes people tell small lies called white lies to make others feel better. Telling a lie in a court is called perjury and is very bad. Some people tell many lies to trick others over a long time. Animals can also trick others, like a bird pretending to be hurt to protect its babies. People start telling lies when they are about two years old.
Stainless steel\n\nStainless steel is a kind of metal that does not get rusty easily. It is used to make forks, knives, and spoons. Some airplanes also use stainless steel. It is very strong and stays shiny for a long time.
Seafood\n\nSeafood is food that comes from the ocean. It can be fish, like salmon or tuna, or other sea animals like shrimp and lobsters. People catch seafood by fishing. Seafood has a lot of protein, which helps your body grow strong. Many people think seafood is healthy to eat.
Cooking\n\nCooking is how we make food ready to eat by heating it. People cook in a kitchen using a stove or an oven. You can also cook over a campfire or on a barbecue. There are many ways to cook food. Boiling cooks food in hot water. Frying cooks food in hot butter or oil. Baking and roasting cook food with hot air. Grilling cooks food on a metal rack over heat. People cook meat by boiling, roasting, frying, or grilling it. Bread and pastries are usually baked. Food is often cooked in a pot or pan. Sometimes food is wrapped in leaves and put into the fire. A person who cooks food is called a cook or a chef. A cooker is a machine that helps cook food, like a rice cooker.
Wisdom\n\nWisdom is knowing the right thing to do. A wise person has learned from things that happened before. Wise people help others by giving good advice. An owl is a sign of wisdom.
Syringe\n\nA syringe is a tool that doctors and nurses use. It has a thin, sharp needle at one end and a tube that can pull in or push out liquid. They use it to give medicine or a shot into your body. Most syringes are used only one time to keep people safe from germs.
Fan (person)\n\nA fan is someone who really likes a thing, a person, or an idea. Fans might like a sport, a music star, or a kind of book. They often meet other fans to talk about what they like. Sometimes fans are called fanatics. A fanatic can care so much that they might hurt people who disagree. In British English, a person who likes a sports team is called a supporter. In American English, supporter is used for people who like a politician or a law.
Dhaka\n\nDhaka is the biggest city in Bangladesh. It is the capital, which means it is where the country's leaders work. Many, many people live there. The city sits near a big river called the Buriganga. Long ago, Dhaka was part of a big empire called the Mughal Empire. Later, it was ruled by Britain. In 1971, Bangladesh became its own country, and Dhaka became its capital. Today, Dhaka has many schools, colleges, and universities. It also has a big bank and a stock exchange. People in Dhaka make clothes, jewelry, and other things. The city has old forts, temples, and a big building where the president lives. Buses even go from Dhaka to a place in India called Agartala.
Iceberg\n\nAn iceberg is a big piece of ice that floats in the sea. It lives in very cold water near the North Pole or the South Pole. Most of the iceberg is under the water, so you can only see a little bit on top. Icebergs break off from big ice sheets or glaciers. They are made from snow that falls in cold places and does not melt in summer. The snow gets squished into ice and slides into the sea. Icebergs can float for years before they melt. They are dangerous for boats because you cannot see the part under the water. A famous ship called the Titanic hit an iceberg and sank. Some icebergs are very big, as big as an island. Icebergs can be white or blue.
Elevation\n\nElevation tells how high a place is. We measure it from the sea level, which is the middle of the ocean. Most land is above the sea, so it has high elevation. Some places are below the sea, like a few deserts. A tall mountain has high elevation.
Quadrilateral\n\nA quadrilateral is a shape with four straight sides and four corners. The sides are straight lines. All the inside corners of a quadrilateral add up to 360 degrees. There are many kinds of quadrilaterals. A square has four sides that are all the same length and four square corners. A rectangle has four square corners but its sides can be different lengths. A rhombus has four sides that are all the same length but its corners are not square. A trapezoid has one pair of sides that are parallel, like train tracks. A parallelogram has two pairs of parallel sides.
Netherlands\n\nThe Netherlands is a country in Europe. It is also called Holland by some people, but the real name is Netherlands. The land is very flat and low. Some parts are even below the sea. Many people ride bicycles there. The big city of Amsterdam is the capital. The Dutch people speak Dutch. The country has a king, but the people choose the government. The Netherlands is known for being kind and letting people be different.
Olympus\n\nMount Olympus is a very tall mountain in Greece. It is the highest mountain in that country. Long ago, people told stories that the gods lived on top of this mountain. They said twelve special gods made their home there.
Sparrow\n\nA sparrow is a small bird. It is brown and gray. It has a short tail and a small, strong beak. Sparrows eat seeds and tiny bugs. They like to live near houses and buildings. You can see them in many places around the world. A sparrow makes its nest in a bush or a hole in a house. The male sparrow has a black throat. The female is brown and cream. Sparrows live in groups called flocks.
Spirituality\n\nSpirituality is about feelings inside you that are hard to see or touch. It is about what makes you feel happy and peaceful. Some people find spirituality in religion, like going to a church or temple. Other people find it in nature, like looking at a big tree or a quiet lake. Some people think about big questions, like what happens after we die. You can feel spiritual when you are quiet and think about things that are bigger than you. It is a way to feel good inside your heart.
Calculator\n\nA calculator is a machine that helps people do math. It can add, subtract, multiply, and divide. Some calculators are small and fit in your pocket. They use batteries or sunlight to work. Bigger calculators can do harder math like square roots. Many phones and computers have a calculator inside them.
Culture\n\nCulture is the way a group of people live and do things. Different groups have different cultures. Culture includes how people write, what they believe, the music they listen to, the clothes they wear, the food they cook, and what they do. People learn their culture from their family and friends. Each country has its own culture. For example, some people in Japan wear special clothes called kimonos and have tea ceremonies. Culture can also be different in different parts of a big country. A workplace can have its own culture too. Culture changes when people move to new places and share their ways with others.
Acoustics\n\nAcoustics is a kind of science. It looks at how sound moves through air, water, and hard things. Sound can bounce back and make an echo. It can also make things shake, which is called vibration. Some sounds are too high or too low for people to hear. A person who studies acoustics is called an acoustician. Another person who uses acoustics to build things is called an acoustical engineer.
Mamba\n\nA mamba is a snake that moves very fast. It lives in Africa. Most mambas live in trees, but the black mamba lives on the ground. Mambas hunt during the day and eat birds, lizards, and small animals. They have poison that can hurt people. Mambas usually do not want to be near people. When a mamba feels scared, it opens its mouth wide and leans forward. The black mamba is the most dangerous kind.
Helmet\n\nA helmet is a hard hat that keeps your head safe. People wear different helmets for different jobs and games. Soldiers wear metal helmets to protect from things that fly in the air. Construction workers wear plastic helmets so things that fall do not hurt them. People who ride bikes or horses wear helmets with soft foam inside. If they fall, the helmet helps keep their head from getting hurt. Some helmets have a dark window to protect eyes from bright light. Helmets can be made of metal, plastic, or leather. They have straps to stay on your head and soft padding inside.
Furniture\n\nFurniture is the word for things like chairs, tables, beds, and cupboards that you find in a house. People use furniture to sit, lie down, or put things on. Most furniture is made of wood, but some is made of leather or other materials. Different rooms have different furniture. A bedroom has a bed, a nightstand, and a dresser with drawers for clothes. A dining room has a table and chairs. An office has a desk and a chair. Furniture can be plain or fancy, and it helps make a house feel like home.
Heaven\n\nHeaven is a place that some people believe in. They think it is a perfect place where good people go after they die. In some stories, heaven is very beautiful and happy. People there do not feel sad or hurt. Different religions have different ideas about heaven. Some say it is a real place, and others say it is a feeling of being close to God.
Europa (moon)\n\nEuropa is a big moon that goes around the planet Jupiter. It is a little smaller than our own Moon. Europa has a very smooth and icy outside, like a giant frozen ball. There are cracks and lines on the ice, but not many holes. Scientists think there is a big ocean of water under the ice, kept warm by Jupiter's strong pull. Europa has a lot of water. It was found by a man named Galileo a long time ago. The name Europa comes from a princess in an old story.
Mass production\n\nMass production is when a factory makes a lot of the same thing very fast. The things made are called products. All the products look the same. Machines help make them. Many people work together to make many things in a short time.
Tomato\n\nA tomato is a round, shiny food that is usually red when it is ready to eat. It has a smooth skin and many tiny seeds inside. Tomatoes start out green and slowly turn red as they grow bigger. Some tomatoes are yellow or orange when they are ripe. People eat tomatoes in many ways: raw in salads, cooked in spaghetti sauce, or made into ketchup. Even though tomatoes have seeds and are really fruits, many people call them vegetables when they cook. Tomatoes are good for you because they have vitamin C and potassium. The tomato plant first grew in South America a long time ago. When people first brought tomatoes to Europe, some thought they were bad to eat, but now people all over the world enjoy them.
Native American\n\nNative Americans are the people who lived in the Americas before people from Europe came. They are also called Indians, but that name came from a mistake. Long ago, a man named Christopher Columbus thought he was in India, so he called them Indians. There are many different groups of Native Americans, called tribes. Each tribe has its own language and way of life. Some tribes moved around to find food. Others stayed in one place and built towns. Native Americans ate different foods depending on where they lived. They gave us chocolate, vanilla, and avocados. They made art with beads and musical instruments from things in nature. Many Native Americans died after Europeans came because of new sicknesses and fights over land. Today, there are still many Native Americans living in North and South America. Some live on reservations, and many live in cities.
Marble\n\nMarble is a hard rock that comes from the ground. It can be white, gray, pink, or many other colors. People use marble to make statues, buildings, and floors. Marble feels smooth and cold when you touch it. Some marbles have pretty swirls and patterns. Long ago, people in Greece and Rome used marble to build big temples and make beautiful statues. Today, you can see marble in some houses, museums, and churches. Marble dust is also used to make paint, toothpaste, and plastics.
Candle\n\nA candle is a stick of wax with a string in the middle. When you light the string on fire, it burns slowly and makes a small flame. The fire melts the wax, and sometimes the hot wax drips down the side. When the wax cools, it gets hard again. The flame is very hot and can burn you. If you blow on the flame, it goes out. A candle gets shorter as it burns until it is all gone. Long ago, people used candles to see at night. Today, some people still use candles when the lights go out, or because they look pretty or smell nice.
Vega\n\nVega is a star that shines very brightly in the night sky. It is the fifth brightest star you can see from Earth. Vega is not too far away, only 25 light-years. A light-year is how far light travels in one year. Vega is much bigger and hotter than our Sun. It spins very fast, which makes its middle bulge out. Vega has a ring of dust around it, like a big circle of tiny rocks and dust. This dust might come from things bumping into each other. Some scientists think there might be a big planet like Jupiter hiding in that dust ring. People have studied Vega for a long time. It was the first star, besides the Sun, that people took a picture of.
Croatia\n\nCroatia is a country in Europe. Its capital city is Zagreb. Croatia has a long coast next to the Adriatic Sea. There are many islands near the coast. Some islands have people living on them all year. Croatia has mountains, forests, and rivers. The Plitvice Lakes are famous lakes with pretty waterfalls. Many people visit Croatia to swim in the clear water and see old cities like Dubrovnik. Croatia became its own country in 1991. It joined the European Union in 2013.
Marsupial\n\nA marsupial is a kind of animal that carries its babies in a pouch on its belly. The babies are called joeys. When a joey is born, it is very tiny and crawls into its mother's pouch. There it drinks milk and stays warm and safe. When the joey gets bigger, it can leave the pouch for short times. When it is too big, it stops going back in. Kangaroos, koalas, and opossums are marsupials. Most marsupials live in Australia and nearby islands. Some live in South and Central America. One kind, the Virginia opossum, lives in North America.
Tunis\n\nTunis is a big city in Africa. It is the capital of a country called Tunisia. Many people live there. The city has houses, shops, and streets where people walk and play.
Pyrenees\n\nThe Pyrenees are a long line of very tall mountains in Europe. They sit between two countries, France and Spain, like a big wall. The mountains go all the way from the ocean on one side to the sea on the other side. Some of the mountains are so high that snow stays on top all year long.
Kuril Islands\n\nThe Kuril Islands are a group of islands between Russia and Japan. Some of the islands belong to Russia, and some are claimed by both countries. Japan wants four of the islands back. Russia said it would give back two small islands, but Japan did not agree. The islands are far away and have few people.
Biscuit\n\nA biscuit is a small baked food. In some countries, biscuits are sweet and people eat them with tea or milk. In other countries, biscuits are like small breads that you can eat with butter or jam. They are made from flour and baked in an oven.
Mongolia\n\nMongolia is a big country in Asia. It is between Russia and China. Mongolia has lots of grassy land called steppes. Some parts have mountains, and some parts have the Gobi Desert. Many people in Mongolia do not live in cities. They move from place to place with their animals. This is called being nomadic. Horses are very important in Mongolia. The biggest city is Ulaanbaatar. About half of the people live there. Mongolia has cold winters and mild summers. The sky is often blue, so people call it the 'Land of the Eternal Blue Sky.'
Photojournalism\n\nPhotojournalism is taking pictures to tell a story. A long time ago, a man named Mathew Brady took pictures of a big war. Many newspapers and magazines had people who took pictures for them. They tried to take the very best pictures. Now it is harder to make money doing this because there are many people taking pictures.
Estuary\n\nAn estuary is where a river meets the sea. The salt water from the sea mixes with the fresh water from the river. This mixed water is called brackish water. Estuaries can be big or small, and they often curve and bend. Many fish, crabs, and birds live in estuaries. Baby fish grow up there before they swim out to the ocean. Some big cities are built near estuaries.
Academy Award\n\nThe Academy Award is a prize for movies. It is also called the Oscar. The prize is a gold statue that is about as tall as a ruler and as heavy as a big bag of sugar. People give out the Oscars every year in Los Angeles. The best movies and actors get the prize. Some movies have won many Oscars, like 'Titanic' and 'Ben-Hur'. Walt Disney won the most Oscars ever, 26 of them.
Cumin\n\nCumin is a plant that grows flowers. People use its seeds to make food taste good. The seeds are small and brown. Cumin is used a lot in Indian and Pakistani cooking. It gives a warm, yummy flavor to dishes like rice and soup.
Wildlife conservation\n\nWildlife conservation is about taking care of wild animals and the places where they live. Some animals are in danger because their homes are being cut down or because people hunt them too much. Many animals might disappear forever if we do not help them. People all over the world work together to keep animals safe and to make sure they have enough food and space to live.
Thyme\n\nThyme is a small plant that smells and tastes strong. It has tiny green leaves and grows close to the ground. People use thyme in cooking to make food taste good, like in soups, stews, and with meat. Thyme likes warm, sunny places and dry soil. It can grow back every year. Long ago, people thought thyme gave courage and put it under pillows to help sleep. Thyme can also be used as medicine for coughs and sore throats.
Nut (fruit)\n\nA nut is a fruit with a hard shell. Some plants grow nuts. The shell keeps the seed safe inside. Nuts have good things for your body, like protein and fats. People and animals eat nuts. Some nuts are called almonds, walnuts, and peanuts. But not all nuts are true nuts. Some people get sick if they eat nuts.
Taklamakan Desert\n\nThe Taklamakan Desert is a very dry and sandy place in China. There is almost no water there, so it is dangerous to walk across. Long ago, people traveled through the desert with camels on a road called the Silk Road. They stopped at towns with water and trees called oases. Some of those towns are now old and empty. Today, people called Uyghurs live near the desert.
Japanese literature\n\nJapanese literature is stories and poems written in the Japanese language. Long ago, Japanese writing was a lot like Chinese writing because Japan and China talked to each other a lot. Over time, Japanese writers made their own special way of writing. A long time ago, women wrote many famous stories and poems. Later, when the emperor's court became less strong, women did not write as many famous works.
Web browser\n\nA web browser is a computer program that lets you look at websites on the Internet. You can use it on a computer, a tablet, or a phone. Many web browsers are free. You type the name of a website into a box at the top, and the browser shows you the page. It gets pictures, words, and videos from the Internet and puts them on your screen so you can see them.
Litre\n\nA litre is a way to measure how much space something takes up. People use litres to measure liquids like water, milk, and juice. One litre is the same as a box that is 10 centimetres tall, 10 centimetres wide, and 10 centimetres long. A litre of water weighs exactly one kilogram. You might see milk sold in one-litre cartons at the store. There are also smaller measures: 1000 millilitres make one litre. The symbol for litre is a letter L or a small l.
Freezing\n\nFreezing is when a liquid gets very cold and turns into a solid. When water freezes, it becomes ice. The cold makes the tiny bits of water slow down and stick together in a neat pattern. Freezing happens outside when it is very cold, like when puddles turn to ice or snow falls from the sky. Freezing also helps keep food fresh in the freezer. When you put water in the freezer, it turns into ice cubes. Salt water freezes at a colder temperature than plain water, so the ocean does not freeze as easily as a lake. Freezing is the opposite of melting, which is when ice turns back into water.
Natural satellite\n\nA natural satellite is a moon. A moon is a big rock that goes around a planet. The Earth has one moon. We call it the Moon. The Moon does not make its own light. It shines because the Sun lights it up. The Moon looks different at different times. Sometimes it looks round and bright. Sometimes it looks like a thin smile. This is called the phases of the Moon. The Moon takes about 28 days to go through all its phases. People have walked on the Moon. Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin were the first. They went there in a spaceship called Apollo 11.
Observable universe\n\nThe observable universe is everything we can see from Earth. It is like a big ball around us. Light from far away takes a long time to reach us. The universe is very old, about 14 billion years. The observable universe is huge, about 93 billion light-years across. We cannot see everything because some light has not reached us yet.
Azerbaijan\n\nAzerbaijan is a country that sits between Europe and Asia. It is next to Russia, Georgia, Armenia, Iran, and the Caspian Sea. The capital city is Baku. Many people in Azerbaijan speak Azerbaijani. Most people are Muslim. The country has mountains, forests, and animals like the Karabakh horse. People in Azerbaijan like to eat rice with saffron and drink black tea. They also enjoy music, dancing, and playing backgammon.
Comet\n\nA comet is a big ball of ice and dust that moves in space. People sometimes call comets "dirty snowballs." Comets are not like rocks in space. They have long tails that point away from the sun. The sun melts the ice on the comet, and the tail is made of the melted stuff. The hard middle part of a comet is called the nucleus. It is very dark and does not shine much. Some comets come back again and again. Other comets visit only once. Long ago, people were scared of comets. They thought comets were bad signs. Now we know comets are just ice balls going around the sun.
Robbery\n\nRobbery is when someone takes something that is not theirs by making the other person scared or by hurting them. A person who does this is called a robber. If someone takes something without scaring or hurting anyone, that is called stealing, not robbery.
Deflation\n\nDeflation is when things you buy cost less money than before. It is the opposite of when prices go up. Sometimes people wait to buy things because they think prices will get even lower. Then stores sell less, and some workers may lose their jobs. Deflation can be a sign that a country's money is not doing well. Governments try to help by making taxes lower for companies, so they can still make money even with lower prices.
Outsider art\n\nOutsider art is art made by people who did not go to art school to learn how to draw or paint. These artists make art from their own ideas and feelings. They do not care what other artists are doing. Some outsider artists build strange houses or make paintings and sculptures. Their art is not usually sold in stores or shown in museums.
Girl\n\nA girl is a young female person. A girl is a child or a teenager. When a girl grows up, her body changes and she becomes a woman. The word "girl" was used a long time ago. Sometimes people call grown women "girls" too. The opposite of a girl is a boy. Girls can wear dresses, skirts, or pants. Many girls have long hair, but some have short hair.
Cotton\n\nCotton is a soft, fluffy plant fiber that grows around the seeds of the cotton plant. It feels like a little cloud. People take the cotton from the plant and spin it into thread. Then they make the thread into cloth. The cloth is used to make clothes, especially for hot weather, and also bandages. Cotton plants have pretty flowers and grow in many warm places around the world. The fluffy part helps the seeds float in the wind to new places. Cotton can soak up a lot of water, like a sponge.
Mosquito\n\nA mosquito is a small flying bug. It is a type of fly. Only girl mosquitoes bite people and suck their blood. They need the blood to make eggs. Boy mosquitoes eat sweet plant juice. Mosquitoes lay eggs in water. The babies wiggle in the water and breathe through tubes. They grow up to be mosquitoes. Mosquito bites can make you itchy. Some mosquitoes carry germs that make people sick. Many fish and dragonflies eat mosquitoes.
Painted turtle\n\nA painted turtle is a kind of turtle that lives in North America. It has a dark, smooth top shell and green or black skin with red, orange, or yellow stripes on its neck, legs, and tail. The male is smaller than the female. Painted turtles live in slow-moving water like ponds and marshes where plants grow. They eat water plants, tiny bugs, and small fish. They like to sit in the sun to get warm because they are cold-blooded. In winter, they sleep in the mud at the bottom of the water. The mother turtle digs a hole on land and lays eggs. Baby turtles grow up and become adults after a few years.
Sphere\n\nA sphere is a round shape that looks like a ball. Every part of its outside is the same distance from the middle. A big sphere is called a globe, like the Earth. A small sphere is called a ball, like a basketball or a playground ball. The Sun is also shaped like a sphere.
Sauropod\n\nA sauropod is a very big dinosaur with a long neck and a long tail. It had a small head, thick legs like pillars, and teeth like pegs. Some sauropods were the biggest animals that ever lived on land. They lived a long time ago, in the time of dinosaurs. Sauropods ate plants. They lived in groups, like a big family. They laid many eggs in the same place every year. Sauropods liked to be near water, like lakes or rivers. They could swim a little, but they mostly stayed on land. Their bones have been found all over the world, even in cold places like Antarctica.
Gardening\n\nGardening is when people grow plants like flowers, trees, or vegetables. Some people do gardening outside in their backyard or in pots on a balcony. Others do gardening inside their house or in a greenhouse, which is a special building with a glass roof that lets sunlight in. People use tools like a spade, a watering can, and a hose to dig and water the plants. Gardening can be a fun hobby, and some people grow food for their own family to eat.
Norway\n\nNorway is a country in the north of Europe. It is next to the North Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. The king of Norway is Harald the 5th. About 5 million people live there. The capital city is Oslo. People in Norway speak Norwegian. Norway has mountains, forests, and lots of fish in the sea. Many tourists come to see the Northern Lights, which are pretty colors in the sky at night. Norway also has oil and gas under the sea. The country is very cold in winter, and people like to go skiing.
Epidemic\n\nAn epidemic is when a sickness spreads to many people at the same time. It moves from person to person very fast. Doctors try to stop it by giving medicine and shots. If the sickness spreads all over the world, it is called a pandemic.
Charcoal\n\nCharcoal is a black, powdery thing that comes from wood. To make charcoal, wood is heated in a special place with almost no air. The wood does not burn but turns into charcoal. People use charcoal to cook food on a grill outside. Artists also use charcoal to draw pictures.
Burj Khalifa\n\nThe Burj Khalifa is a very tall building in Dubai. It is the tallest building in the whole world. The building is so tall that it goes up into the sky like a giant needle. It has 162 floors. People live and work inside the building. There is a big fountain outside that shoots water up high and lights up with many colors. The building took almost six years to build and opened in 2010. Many workers from faraway countries helped build it.
Tashkent\n\nTashkent is a big city and the capital of a country called Uzbekistan. It is in Central Asia, and many people live there. The name Tashkent means "Stone City." People have lived there for a very long time. The city is near a river and has cold, snowy winters and hot, dry summers. Sometimes the ground shakes in Tashkent, and a big shake in 1966 broke many buildings. Tashkent has old buildings like a school called Kukeldash Madrasah and a pretty theater called Navoi Theater. People in Tashkent like to play soccer, and there are many soccer teams there.
Learning\n\nLearning is how you get new ideas and learn to do new things. Your brain changes a little bit every time you learn something. The brain has special parts that help you remember and pay attention. You can learn by watching others, by practicing, or by having someone teach you. Learning happens in school, at home, and when you play. Animals can learn too, like dogs learning to sit for a treat. Learning is something you do your whole life.
French literature\n\nFrench literature is the stories and poems that people write in the French language. Some of these stories come from France, and some come from other countries where people speak French, like Belgium, Canada, and Senegal. The French language came from Latin, which is an old language. Many French writers have won big prizes for their stories.
Irrigation sprinkler\n\nAn irrigation sprinkler is a tool that sprays water on plants. It helps water the grass and flowers in a garden or on a farm. The sprinkler needs water that is pushed hard through pipes. Some sprinklers are small and sit on the ground. Others pop up from the grass when they turn on. The water comes out in a spray and makes the plants wet so they can grow.
Kuiper belt\n\nThe Kuiper belt is a big area in space far away from the Sun. It is past the planet Neptune. Many icy rocks live there. Some of them are round and very big, like Pluto. Pluto is a dwarf planet in the Kuiper belt. The Kuiper belt has lots of these icy rocks, more than we can count.
Wi-Fi\n\nWi-Fi is a way to connect to the internet without wires. It uses invisible waves to send information through the air. Many things at home use Wi-Fi, like phones, tablets, and computers. You can use Wi-Fi anywhere in the world if you have the right password. Wi-Fi is safe and not bad for you.
Cement\n\nCement is a powder that gets hard and sticks things together. People mix it with water and sand or small stones to make concrete. Concrete is used to build sidewalks, walls, and houses. Cement can also be spread on walls to keep them safe from rain. It is made by heating limestone and clay until they turn into a hard rock, then grinding that rock into a fine powder. Cement is very strong and can even be used underwater.
Damselfly\n\nA damselfly is an insect that looks like a dragonfly but is smaller and weaker at flying. Most damselflies rest with their wings held together along their body. They have big eyes that are far apart and can see movement very well. Damselflies are often bright and colorful, but they hide in bushes where it is shady. They eat other insects. Baby damselflies live in the water and eat tiny bugs there too. Damselflies live on every continent except Antarctica.
Sri Lanka\n\nSri Lanka is a country that is an island in the Indian Ocean, near India. The biggest city is Colombo, and the capital is Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte. Many people live there, over 22 million. The people are mostly Sinhalese, who speak Sinhala and are Buddhist. There are also Tamils, who speak Tamil and are Hindu, and Moors, who are Muslim. The flag has a lion holding a sword, and the colors stand for the different groups. Sri Lanka was once called Ceylon. It was ruled by other countries like Portugal, the Netherlands, and Britain. It became its own country in 1948. The country grows tea, and for a long time it was the biggest seller of tea in the world. There are also rubber and coconut trees. The weather is warm and tropical, with beaches and forests.
Powerlifting\n\nPowerlifting is a sport where people try to lift very heavy things. They do three special lifts: a squat, a bench press, and a deadlift. In a squat, you bend your knees and stand back up with a heavy bar on your back. In a bench press, you lie on a bench and push a heavy bar up from your chest. In a deadlift, you bend down and pull a heavy bar up from the floor. The person who lifts the most weight wins.
Plankton\n\nPlankton are tiny plants and animals that float in the ocean. They live near the top of the water where the sun shines. Plankton cannot swim very well, so they drift with the currents. Many sea animals eat plankton for food. Big whales and sharks eat lots of plankton. Small fish babies also eat plankton when they grow. Plankton need food from the land to grow big and strong.
Value\n\nValue is how much something is worth. Sometimes you can tell the value by the price you pay for it. But some things are very valuable even if they are free, like water. People may think different things have different value. That is okay.
Copyright\n\nCopyright is a law that says a person who makes something, like a book, a song, or a picture, owns it. No one else can copy it without asking first. This helps the person who made it earn money. If someone copies without permission, the owner can tell a judge. The judge may make the copier pay money or even go to jail. Copyright lasts for many years, even after the person who made it dies. After that, anyone can copy it. Sometimes people can copy a tiny bit for a school report or a news story. That is called fair use.
Squirrel\n\nA squirrel is a small animal with a long, fluffy tail. Squirrels live in trees and can climb very fast. They eat nuts, seeds, berries, and pine cones. Sometimes they eat bird eggs and bugs. In the fall, tree squirrels hide food to eat in the winter. Squirrels can be gray, black, red, or brown. They have sharp teeth and big eyes. Baby squirrels are born blind and deaf. Their mom takes care of them. Many animals like foxes and snakes hunt squirrels.
Train station\n\nA train station is a place where trains stop so people can get on or off. Trains run on tracks, and the station is next to the tracks. There are flat parts called platforms where people stand to wait for the train. Many stations have a place to buy tickets, benches to sit on, and a roof to keep dry. Some stations are very big and have shops and restaurants. The busiest train station in the world is in Tokyo, Japan. A station at the end of a train line is called a terminus, where trains have to stop and turn around.
Nut (hardware)\n\nA nut is a small piece of metal with a hole that has a spiral groove inside. It is used with a bolt to hold things together. Nuts and bolts are a pair. Most nuts have six sides so a tool can turn them. Nuts come in different strengths to match the bolt they go with.
Summer\n\nSummer is one of the four seasons. It is the hottest time of the year. In some places, summer has a lot of rain. In other places, it is dry. When it is summer in the north part of the world, it is winter in the south part. Many people go to the beach or have picnics in summer. Some places even get snow in summer.
Sky\n\nThe sky is the big space above your head that you see when you look up. During the day, the sky looks blue. At night, it looks dark blue or black. The Sun, Moon, and stars are in the sky. Sometimes you see clouds, rain, or lightning in the sky. Birds and airplanes also fly in the sky. Other planets have different sky colors. For example, the sky on Mars is pink.
Motivation\n\nMotivation is what makes you want to do something. It is like a push inside you that helps you get what you need or want. For example, when you are hungry, that feeling makes you want to eat food. Animals also have motivation, like when they are thirsty and look for water. People can have big plans, like learning to read or saving money for a toy. Sometimes a smile from a grown-up can make you feel good and want to try harder. Motivation can come from inside you, like when you feel proud of finishing a puzzle. It can also come from outside, like when you get a treat for being good.
Singing\n\nSinging is making music with your voice. When you sing, your voice goes high and low to make a tune called a song. People have been singing for a very long time, maybe since the beginning of people. Birds sing too, like the little birds that make pretty sounds outside. To sing, you use air from your lungs. You can practice to make your voice stronger and better. Some people sing in a group called a choir. Others sing alone. You can sing anywhere, even in the shower! Almost anyone can learn to sing if they try.
Beowulf\n\nBeowulf is a very old story about a brave fighter. A long time ago, a man named Beowulf went to help a king whose people were being hurt by a scary monster named Grendel. Beowulf fought Grendel with his bare hands and tore off the monster's arm. Then Grendel's mother came to get revenge, and Beowulf fought her too and won. Later, Beowulf became a king and fought a dragon. He killed the dragon but got hurt and died. The story of Beowulf has been told in books, plays, and movies.
Sewing machine\n\nA sewing machine is a tool that puts thread through fabric to make clothes and other things. It works much faster than sewing by hand. Some sewing machines can also make pretty designs on cloth. People use them at home to fix or make their own clothes. Big sewing machines in factories make lots of clothes very quickly. The machine has a needle that goes up and down, and a foot pedal that you push to make it go. You can sew straight lines or zigzag shapes with it.
Mullet (fish)\n\nA mullet is a fish that lives in warm and cool waters near coasts all over the world. Some mullets also live in fresh water. People have eaten mullets as food for a very long time. Mullets have two separate fins on their backs and small triangle-shaped mouths. They eat tiny bits of dead plants and animals. Mullets sometimes jump out of the water. One jump is fast and straight to get away from enemies. Another jump is slower and makes a big splash. Scientists are not sure why they do the slow jump.
National Gallery of Art\n\nThe National Gallery of Art is a big building in Washington, D.C., where people can look at paintings and statues. It was built a long time ago, in 1938. A man named Andrew W. Mellon gave money and art to help start the museum. Many other people also gave their art to the museum. Now it has lots of beautiful paintings and statues from America and other places. You can walk around and see them for free.
Brazilian jiu-jitsu\n\nBrazilian jiu-jitsu is a way to play fight on the ground. It is a sport and a way to protect yourself. A man named Helio Gracie made it up. He took moves from Judo and changed them to work better on the ground. People who do Brazilian jiu-jitsu wear a special jacket and pants called a gi. Sometimes they just wear a tight shirt. They learn how to hold someone down and how to get free. They also learn safe ways to make someone stop moving, like gentle squeezes and twists.
Artichoke\n\nAn artichoke is a plant that people can eat. It has a big flower bud with thick green scales. The bottom part of the bud is called the heart, and it is soft and tasty. People boil or grill artichokes. You can pull off the leaves and eat the soft part at the bottom. Artichokes grow in warm places like countries near the sea. They are picked in spring and early summer. Artichokes are good for you because they have vitamins.
Dwarf planet\n\nA dwarf planet is a big round thing in space that goes around the Sun. It is like a planet, but smaller and not as important. Dwarf planets live in different parts of our solar system. Some are in the asteroid belt, and some are far away near Pluto. There are nine dwarf planets that scientists know about. Their names are Ceres, Pluto, Orcus, Haumea, Makemake, Quaoar, Sedna, Gonggong, and Eris. In 2015, two space ships visited Ceres and Pluto and took pictures of them.
Nairobi\n\nNairobi is a big city in Africa. It is the capital of Kenya, a country far from the ocean. The name Nairobi means 'place of cool water' in the Maasai language. Many people live there, more than six million. The city started a long time ago as a place where trains stopped. Today, Nairobi has many big stores where people shop. Some people call it 'Nairobbery' because there can be bad people who take things that are not theirs.
Detergent\n\nDetergent is something you use to wash clothes and make them clean. It comes as a powder or a liquid. You put it in a washing machine with water and dirty clothes. The detergent grabs the dirt and helps the water take it away. Then the machine spins the clothes to get the water out. After that, the clothes are clean and wet. You can put them in a dryer or hang them up to dry.
Rwanda\n\nRwanda is a country in East Africa. It is called the "Land of a Thousand Hills" because it has many mountains and hills. The capital city is Kigali. Rwanda does not touch the ocean. It is a small country, but many people live there. Rwanda has clean cities and national parks where mountain gorillas live. Long ago, a very sad time happened when many people were hurt and killed. Now Rwanda is peaceful and growing again.
Human tooth\n\nA human tooth is a hard, white part inside your mouth. Teeth help you eat by cutting and smashing food into small pieces before you swallow. You have different kinds of teeth. The front teeth are flat and cut food like scissors. The pointy teeth next to them tear food apart. The back teeth are big and flat and grind food into mush. Your teeth are very strong, but you need to brush them every day to keep them clean and healthy.
Asparagus\n\nAsparagus is a plant that people can eat. There are many kinds of asparagus, over 300. Some are grown just for looks, like the "asparagus fern," which is not a real fern. The kind people eat is called "Asparagus officinalis." It is a vegetable that comes up in spring. Eating asparagus can make your pee smell funny.
Nurse shark\n\nA nurse shark is a type of shark that lives near the bottom of the ocean. It has a flat head, small eyes, and long whiskers near its mouth. Nurse sharks are usually light yellow or dark brown. Baby nurse sharks have small black spots all over their bodies. These sharks are slow and sleepy during the day. They rest on the sandy bottom or in caves with other nurse sharks. At night, they wake up and hunt for food like fish, crabs, and clams. Nurse sharks are not mean to people unless someone bothers them. They can stay still in the water, which helps them catch food. A mother nurse shark can have up to 29 babies at one time.
Diamond\n\nA diamond is a very hard, clear stone that comes from deep inside the Earth. Diamonds are made of the same stuff as coal, but they are much harder. They are the hardest natural thing in the world. People use diamonds to cut and polish other things. Some diamonds are clear, and some are yellow, red, blue, green, or pink. Big diamonds are rare and cost a lot of money. Only some diamonds are used in jewelry. The rest are used for tools like drill bits and saws. Diamonds are found where volcanoes used to be. Sometimes people find them on the ground, but other times they have to dig deep mines.
Hokkaidō\n\nHokkaidō is a big island in Japan. It is the northernmost island of Japan. It is very cold in winter and lots of snow falls. In summer it is warm or hot. Many people grow food there. It is the second biggest island in Japan.
Grief\n\nGrief is a sad feeling you have when you lose someone or something you love very much. It can happen when a pet dies or when someone you care about goes away. When you feel grief, you might cry a lot, feel angry, or feel very quiet and not know what to do. Everyone feels grief in their own way, and that is okay.
Achilles\n\nAchilles was a very strong hero from a long time ago. He fought in a big war called the Trojan War. His mother was a water fairy named Thetis. When Achilles was a baby, his mother dipped him in a magic river to make him very strong. But she held him by his heel, so that part stayed soft. Later, a bad man shot an arrow into his heel, and that hurt him very much. Today, people call a weak spot an "Achilles' heel." The strong cord at the back of your foot is also called the Achilles tendon.
Voltage\n\nVoltage is what pushes electricity through wires. It is like a force that makes tiny things called charges move. When charges move, we get electric current. Voltage is measured in volts. A battery has voltage, like 1.5 volts or 9 volts. The wall socket in your house has voltage too, like 120 volts. There are two kinds of voltage: DC voltage, which stays the same, like in a battery, and AC voltage, which changes back and forth, like in a wall socket. You can measure voltage with a tool called a voltmeter. Voltage always needs two points to measure between, like the two ends of a battery.
Medical diagnosis\n\nA medical diagnosis is when a doctor finds out what is making someone sick. The doctor asks questions and looks at the person's body. Sometimes the doctor does tests, like taking a little bit of blood or pee to check in a lab. X-rays are another kind of test that take pictures inside the body. When the doctor knows what is wrong, they can help the person feel better.
Sleep\n\nSleep is a time when your body rests. Most animals, including people, sleep. When you sleep, your body is quiet and your eyes are closed. Your brain still works, but you are not awake. Sleep helps you feel better and have energy for the next day. At night, the sun goes down, and many people go to sleep. Some animals sleep during the day and are awake at night. When you sleep, you might have dreams. Dreams are like little stories in your head. Babies sleep a lot, about 18 hours each day. Grown-ups need less sleep, about 7 to 9 hours. If you do not get enough sleep, you might feel tired and grumpy. It is important to sleep in a quiet, dark place. Taking a short nap in the afternoon can also help you feel rested.
Fighter aircraft\n\nA fighter aircraft is a small military plane that fights other airplanes. It is very fast and can turn quickly. Fighter planes have strong engines and carry weapons like missiles, machine guns, and bombs. Some fighters attack things on the ground, like trucks or buildings. But their main job is to fight other planes in the sky.
Atacama Desert\n\nThe Atacama Desert is a very dry place in Chile. It is one of the driest places on Earth. In some parts, rain does not fall for many years. The desert is cold at night and warm during the day. People who live there get water from fog. They put up plastic sheets, and fog drops water into pans. This water is used for drinking and growing food. Long ago, three countries fought over this desert because it had special salt mines. The oldest mummies in the world were found here.
Civil union\n\nA civil union is a special promise between two people. It gives them rights like married people have. In some countries, two people of the same sex can make this promise. The first country to have civil unions was Denmark. Later, Denmark let these people marry instead.
Aphrodite\n\nAphrodite is a make-believe goddess from old Greek stories. She is the goddess of love and beauty. People said she was the most beautiful of all the goddesses. She was married to Hephaestus, the god of fire and metal. But she liked to spend time with other gods, like Ares, the god of war. Some stories say she was born from sea foam. Her special animals are the dove, the sparrow, and the swan. The rose and the dolphin are also her symbols. The Romans called her Venus.
Everglades\n\nThe Everglades is a big, flat, wet place in Florida. It is like a slow river that moves through grass and trees. Many animals live there, like alligators, crocodiles, birds, and fish. It is the only place where crocodiles and alligators live together. The Everglades is a national park, which means people take care of it. Many people visit every year to see the animals and the water. But people have changed the water, and now fewer birds live there.
Mesoamerica\n\nMesoamerica is a place in the middle of America. It starts in Mexico and goes down to Costa Rica. Long ago, native people lived there before other people came. The cacao tree, which gives us chocolate, grows there.
Mermaid\n\nA mermaid is a make-believe creature with a girl's head and body on top and a fish tail on the bottom. Mermaids live in the sea. Sometimes they sit on rocks above the water. Old stories say mermaids sing pretty songs that make sailors crash their boats. Some mermaids are nice and help people, but others are mean. The most famous mermaid story is "The Little Mermaid" by Hans Christian Andersen. Many movies and books have mermaids in them. Some people dress up in mermaid tails for fun.
Flight\n\nFlight is when something moves through the air. Birds can fly by flapping their wings. Insects like bees and butterflies can fly too. Bats also fly. Some animals do not flap their wings but glide through the air, like flying fish and flying squirrels. The fastest flying animal is the peregrine falcon. People make things that fly, like balloons and airplanes. Even tiny seeds and germs can float in the air.
Airport\n\nAn airport is a place where airplanes take off and land. It has a long flat road called a runway for planes. There is a big building called a terminal where people wait for their plane. The doors where you get on the plane are called gates. There are also hangars where planes sleep when they are not flying. A tall building called a control tower tells planes where to go. Some airports are very big and let you fly to other countries. Others are small and only let you fly inside your own country. Big airports have shops and places to eat. Airports are very safe. You have to walk through a special machine that finds metal. Your bags go through a machine that looks inside. You cannot bring big bottles of water or drinks on the plane.
Lift (force)\n\nLift is a force that pushes things up. When air moves fast over a wing, the wing gets pushed up. This is how airplanes stay in the sky. The wing pushes air down, and the air pushes the wing up. Helicopters use spinning blades to make lift. Boats use propellers to push water and move forward. Even sailboats use lift from the wind to go sideways. Race cars have wings that push them down so they stay on the ground.
Skirt\n\nA skirt is a piece of clothing that hangs down from your waist. People have worn skirts for a very long time, even long ago. In some places, both men and women wear skirts. In other places, mostly women wear skirts. Some skirts are long and some are short. A kilt is a special skirt that men wear in Scotland. Skirts can be made of many different materials like cloth or straw. You can wear a skirt to a party or just for playing.
Wound\n\nA wound is a hurt on your skin. It can happen when you get a cut, a scrape, or a bruise. A cut happens when something sharp tears your skin. A scrape happens when you fall and rub your skin. A bruise is a dark spot on your skin from a bump. Your body works hard to fix a wound. It makes a scab to cover the cut and keep it clean. After a few days, the scab falls off and new skin grows underneath. You should keep a wound clean and put a bandage on it to help it heal.
Bronze\n\nBronze is a kind of metal. It is made by mixing copper with a little bit of tin. This makes it stronger than copper alone. Long ago, people in Egypt made the first bronze. They used it to make tools and things. That time is called the Bronze Age. Bronze does not break down easily in air or water. Today, we still use bronze to make bells, parts of machines, and other things that need to last a long time.
Mediterranean Sea\n\nThe Mediterranean Sea is a big body of water between Europe, Africa, and Asia. It is almost all around by land. The sea connects to the Atlantic Ocean through a narrow water path called the Strait of Gibraltar. People built a long canal called the Suez Canal to connect it to the Red Sea. The water is very salty and deep blue. Many old civilizations lived near this sea. People used it for travel, trade, and fishing. Today, it still helps countries trade with each other.
Harmonica\n\nA harmonica is a small musical instrument that you play with your mouth. You blow or suck air into the holes on its side to make sounds. The sounds come from tiny moving parts inside a metal case. Harmonicas are used in many kinds of music like blues, folk, rock, and pop. Some harmonicas have a button that lets you play more notes. People also call it a mouth organ or a blues harp.
Finland\n\nFinland is a country in the north of Europe. It is next to Sweden, Norway, Russia, and Estonia. The capital city is Helsinki. About 5.5 million people live there. Most people speak Finnish, and some speak Swedish. Finland has many forests, lakes, and islands. The weather is cold in winter with snow, and warm in summer. People in Finland like saunas, nature, and summer cottages. Popular sports are ice hockey and skiing. The national animal is the brown bear. Finland became its own country in 1917.
Lake Winnipeg\n\nLake Winnipeg is a very big lake in Canada. It is north of a city called Winnipeg. Many small towns are near the lake, like Gimli and Grand Beach. People go to the lake to swim, fish, and play in the water. The lake is so big that you cannot see the other side.
Tunnel\n\nA tunnel is a path that goes underground. Some tunnels are for cars and some are for trains. A tunnel can also be for ships or for wires that carry electricity. People dig tunnels in soft sand or hard rock. One way to build a tunnel is to dig a big hole, put a roof on top, and cover it with dirt. That is called cut-and-cover. Building a tunnel takes a long time and costs a lot of money. The Channel Tunnel between France and England is very long. It is 50 kilometers long.
Capsicum\n\nCapsicum is a plant that grows fruits we call peppers. Some peppers are sweet and mild, like bell peppers. Other peppers are hot and spicy, like chili peppers. The hot feeling comes from a special part inside the pepper called capsaicin. Birds can eat hot peppers without feeling the burn, but most animals do not like them. People eat peppers raw in salads, cooked in food, or stuffed with cheese or meat. Peppers can be green, red, yellow, or orange. They grow in many places around the world.
Variable star\n\nA variable star is a star that sometimes looks brighter and sometimes looks dimmer. Most stars, like our Sun, stay about the same brightness. But some stars change a lot. There are different kinds of variable stars. Some throw out gas or dust, which makes them change. Some are very young and not yet fully formed. Big giant stars can lose parts of themselves and change brightness. The biggest change happens when a star explodes. That is called a supernova. A supernova can shine brighter than a whole galaxy for a little while. It happens when a very heavy star dies. The star blows up and sends its parts flying into space. The leftover cloud is called a supernova remnant. One famous remnant is the Crab Nebula. People saw that supernova a long time ago in the year 1054.
Pacific Ring of Fire\n\nThe Pacific Ring of Fire is a big circle around the Pacific Ocean. In this place, there are many volcanoes and earthquakes. Most of the world's volcanoes are here. The ring is very long, like a giant belt. Most of the world's earthquakes happen here too. The ground moves and shakes because big pieces of the Earth's crust bump into each other.
Otter\n\nAn otter is an animal that lives near water. Otters are long and slim with four short legs. They have thick fur that keeps them warm in cold water. Their fur is brown on top and lighter underneath. Otters are great swimmers and can stay underwater for 8 minutes. They have webbed feet and a long tail to help them swim. Otters eat meat like fish, crabs, and frogs. They hunt for food in rivers and lakes. Otters are very playful and like to slide down hills and chase each other. A group of otters is called a romp. They live in nests called holts. Otters live on every continent except Australia and Antarctica. Some otters live in the sea and are called sea otters. Sea otters use rocks to break open shells. Otters can live 8 to 9 years in the wild and up to 21 years with people.
Fishing industry\n\nThe fishing industry is all the work people do to catch fish from the ocean, rivers, and lakes. Some people fish for fun, and some fish to sell the fish to stores and restaurants.
Flying fish\n\nFlying fish are small fish that live in warm ocean water all over the world. They do not really fly like birds. Instead, they jump out of the water and glide through the air. Their fins are big and stiff, like little wings. They have a tail that helps them push off the water. Flying fish glide to get away from bigger fish that want to eat them. They can glide a long way, sometimes as far as a big playground. Some flying fish can even glide for almost a minute by dipping their tail in the water to push again.
Oarfish\n\nAn oarfish is a very long, flat fish that lives in the ocean. It is the longest fish with bones in the whole world. Oarfish live far from the shore and deep in the water. They are very rare, so people almost never see them. Sometimes a dead oarfish washes up on the beach. When an oarfish is sick, it swims up near the top of the water. Long ago, people thought these fish were sea monsters. The name "oarfish" comes from how their bodies look like long, flat oars.
Canvas\n\nCanvas is a thick, strong cloth. It is made from cotton that is woven together. People use canvas to make tents and sails for boats. It is also used for painting pictures. Some shoes are made from canvas. Canvas feels rough and lasts a long time. It is often white or light tan.
Gear\n\nA gear is a wheel with bumps called teeth. The teeth of one gear fit into the teeth of another gear. When one gear turns, it makes the other gear turn too. Gears help machines move. You can find gears inside clocks, bikes, and cars. Most gears are made of metal, but some are made of plastic.
Cosmetics\n\nCosmetics are things people put on their body to change how they look. They are used to make someone feel pretty or to look different for a show. Lipstick, powder, and lotion are types of cosmetics. Most cosmetics are used on the face. Some clean the skin, and some color the skin. Cosmetics do not last forever and need to be put on again. Long ago, people in Egypt and Greece used cosmetics too.
Herbal medicine\n\nHerbal medicine is medicine that comes from plants. People use leaves, flowers, roots, and seeds to make it. Some herbal medicine also uses parts of animals or special rocks. People have used plants as medicine for a very long time. The first written recipes for herbal medicine were made 5,000 years ago.
Pollution\n\nPollution is when bad things get into the air, water, or ground and make it dirty. There are many kinds of pollution. Water pollution happens when yucky stuff like trash, soap, or oil gets into rivers and lakes. This makes the water bad for fish and other animals that live there. Air pollution is when smoke and gases from cars, factories, and fires go into the air. This can make it hard for people to breathe and can hurt plants and animals. Noise pollution is when loud sounds like cars, planes, or loud music hurt our ears and make it hard to think. People are trying to stop pollution by using clean energy from the sun and wind.
Lightning\n\nLightning is a big spark of electricity that happens during a thunderstorm. It makes the air very hot and fast, and that makes a loud sound called thunder. Lightning can go from one cloud to another cloud, or from a cloud to the ground. It is very hot, even hotter than the sun. Many lightning bolts hit the Earth every second. Lightning can hit tall buildings like the Empire State Building many times in one year. People can be hurt by lightning, so it is important to stay inside during a thunderstorm.
Syria\n\nSyria is a country in the Middle East, in the western part of Asia. It is next to Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, and Palestine. The western part of Syria touches the Mediterranean Sea. The biggest city is Aleppo, and the capital city is Damascus. Most people in Syria believe in Islam. Syria has a very long history. For a long time, there was a war in Syria that started in 2011. Many people were hurt. In December 2024, the old rulers left, and a new government started. Syria is mostly dry and hot, with some green land near the sea. The Euphrates River is an important river in Syria. Many people live near the river and the coast. Children go to school for free from age 6 to 12. People in Syria like to play football, basketball, swimming, and tennis.
Butter\n\nButter is a yellow food made from milk. It comes from cream, which is the fatty part of milk. People make butter by shaking or mixing cream for a long time until the fat sticks together. You can spread butter on bread or use it to cook food. Most butter comes from cows, but it can also come from sheep, goats, or other animals. Some butter has salt added to it. Butter melts when it gets warm.
Husband\n\nA husband is a man who is married. Married means a man and a woman are a family by law. At the wedding, the husband is called the groom. Some husbands have one wife, and some have more than one wife.
Spanish language\n\nSpanish is a language that many people speak. It started from Latin a long time ago. People in Spain and many other countries speak Spanish. Over 489 million people speak Spanish as their first language. Spanish is the second most common language in the United States. In school in Spain, children learn Spanish. The word for Spanish in Spanish is "español." Spanish is also called Castilian because it came from a place called Castile.
Interest\n\nInterest is extra money you pay when you borrow money, or extra money you get when you lend money. If you borrow 100 dollars and the interest is 1 dollar each year, you pay 1 dollar every year. That is called simple interest. If the 1 dollar is added to what you owe, then next year you pay interest on 101 dollars. That is called compound interest, and the amount you owe grows bigger each year. Sometimes charging too much interest is against the law, and that is called usury. Interest can also mean caring about something. If you like to draw, you have an interest in drawing.
Tax\n\nTax is money that people have to pay to the government. The government uses this money to pay for things like schools, hospitals, roads, police, and the military. There are many different kinds of taxes. Some taxes are taken from the money people earn at work. Other taxes are added to the price of things you buy in a store. Long ago, people paid taxes in other ways, like giving food or coins to the ruler.
Canoe\n\nA canoe is a small boat that people move through water with paddles. It is pointy at both ends and open on top. Most canoes have two people paddling, and they sit or kneel facing the way they want to go. The paddles can have one flat part or two flat parts.
Taiwan\n\nTaiwan is a big island in the sea near China. It is also called Formosa, which means "beautiful" in an old language. Many people live there, and they speak Chinese and other languages. The biggest city is Taipei. Taiwan has tall mountains, and the highest one is called Yu Shan. The weather is warm, and there are many trees and animals. Some people in Taiwan want to be their own country, and some want to be part of China. Most countries do not say Taiwan is a country, but they still trade and talk with Taiwan.
Hide-and-seek\n\nHide-and-seek is a game where some people hide and one person looks for them. One person is called "it." They cover their eyes and count to a number. While they count, everyone else finds a hiding spot. When counting is done, they say "Ready or not, here I come!" and start looking. When they find someone, that person is out. The last person found wins. The first person found is "it" for the next round. In another way to play, the seeker stays at a special spot called "home base." After hiding, players try to run back to home base without being tagged. If they make it, they are safe.
Hamburg\n\nHamburg is a big city in the north of Germany. It sits next to a big river called the Elbe, not far from the sea. Many ships come to Hamburg's harbor because it is one of the biggest harbors in the world. The city has lots of businesses, and a company called Airbus builds big airplanes there. Many newspapers and TV shows in Germany are made in Hamburg. The city has a long history as a trading place.
Ceres (dwarf planet)\n\nCeres is a small round ball in space. It is the smallest dwarf planet in our Solar System. Ceres lives in the asteroid belt, which is a big ring of rocks between Mars and Jupiter. It is the biggest thing in that belt. Ceres is round like a ball, but it is too far away and too dim to see without a telescope. A spaceship named Dawn went to visit Ceres in 2015. Ceres has a big hole called Occator that has shiny white salt inside.
Hebrew language\n\nHebrew is a language. A long time ago, people called Israelites spoke Hebrew. Later, many Jewish people stopped using it every day. But in the 1900s, people started speaking Hebrew again. Today, Hebrew is the language of Israel, a country far away. Hebrew is written with 22 letters. You read Hebrew from right to left, which is different from English. Some Hebrew letters change shape when they are at the end of a word. Hebrew words are made from a root and a pattern. Many Hebrew words are like Arabic words because they are both Semitic languages. People who learn Hebrew need to study how to read without vowels.
Diving\n\nDiving is when you jump or fall down into water. People do diving as a fun sport. They jump from a high board or a flat place above the water. There are six kinds of dives and four ways to hold your body. You can curl up tight, bend at the waist, keep your body straight, or move freely. Some dives are done facing the water, and some are done facing away. A big step into the water is called a giant stride dive. Diving is exciting to watch and fun to try.
Bustard\n\nA bustard is a big bird that lives on dry grass fields. It has strong legs and can stomp on small bugs and animals. It eats leaves, seeds, fruit, and little creatures. Most bustards live in Africa, and some live in Europe too. In some parts of Africa, people like bustards because they eat locusts that can hurt crops.
Buenos Aires\n\nBuenos Aires is a big city in a country called Argentina. It is the capital, which means it is the most important city in that country. Many people live there. The weather is warm in summer and not too cold in winter. Snow is very rare and almost never falls. People speak Spanish there. Many visitors come to see the city because it has pretty buildings and fun places to visit.
Dermatology\n\nDermatology is a kind of medicine that takes care of your skin and hair. Doctors who work in dermatology are called dermatologists. They help fix problems like pimples, rashes, and sun bumps on your skin.
Jazz dance\n\nJazz dance is a kind of dancing that people do on a stage. It started as dancing to jazz music at parties. Now, dancers learn jazz dance in class. It has moves that are fast and fun. Some famous dancers like Bob Fosse made up new jazz dances. Ballet dancing also uses some jazz dance moves.
Navy\n\nThe navy is the part of a country's military that fights on water using boats. People in the navy are called sailors. The navy has big boats called warships. Some boats can go underwater, and those are called submarines. Other boats are like floating airports and are called aircraft carriers. Long ago, navy boats used oars or sails to move. Later, boats got armor to protect them and steam engines to make them go fast.
Cooperation\n\nCooperation is when people work together to help each other. They do not have to work together, but they choose to. Sometimes animals and plants cooperate too. A sea anemone gives a clownfish a place to live, and the clownfish eats the moss that grows on the anemone.
Bagpipes\n\nBagpipes are a musical instrument. They have a bag that holds air. The player blows into a tube to fill the bag with air. When the bag is squeezed, the air comes out through a pipe that makes music. There are also other pipes that make a steady sound. Bagpipes are often linked to Scotland, but many other places have them too. People play bagpipes at parades and funerals. The sound is very loud and special.
Resplendent quetzal\n\nThe resplendent quetzal is a bird with very bright and pretty feathers. It lives in Central America. The bird has long, shiny green tail feathers and a red belly. People in Guatemala love this bird so much that it is on their flag and their money. Long ago, people told stories about this special bird.
Yellow Sea\n\nThe Yellow Sea is a big body of water between China and Korea. It is part of the East China Sea. The water looks yellow because dirt from the Yellow River makes it that color. Other rivers like the Yalu and Han also flow into it. The northwestern part of the Yellow Sea is called the Bohai Sea.
Brown\n\nBrown is a color. Light cannot go through brown. Brown is not in the rainbow. You can make brown by mixing other colors together. For example, mix black and orange, or red and green, or blue and orange. Many things are brown, like tree trunks, dirt, and chocolate.
Pharaoh\n\nA pharaoh was the leader of ancient Egypt. The word "pharaoh" means "Great House," which was the name of the palace where the leader lived. A pharaoh was both the king and the religious leader of the people. The pharaoh made laws, went to war, collected taxes, and owned all the land in Egypt. After a pharaoh died, they were buried in a tomb with many treasures to use in the afterlife. Some famous pharaohs were King Tutankhamun, whose tomb was found in 1922, and Cleopatra, who was a queen of Egypt. Most pharaohs were men, but a few women, like Hatshepsut, also became pharaohs.
Turnip\n\nA turnip is a vegetable that grows under the ground. It is round and white on the outside. People eat small turnips. Big turnips are food for farm animals. Turnips are good for your eyes and help keep you healthy. In some places, people call big turnips neeps or swedes.
Artery\n\nAn artery is a tube inside your body that carries blood away from your heart. Most arteries carry blood with lots of oxygen. The biggest artery is called the aorta. It starts at the heart and goes down to your belly. Arteries have three layers: a stretchy outside, a muscle middle, and a smooth inside. When your heart beats, arteries stretch to let blood through, then squeeze to push the blood along. Arteries are deep under your skin. If an artery gets hurt, it can bleed a lot very fast. Sometimes arteries get hard or clogged, which makes it hard for blood to get through. That can make the heart work too hard.
Supercomputer\n\nA supercomputer is a very fast and powerful computer. It can do jobs much faster than the computer you have at home. Supercomputers are used to tell what the weather will be, to solve hard math problems, and to help scientists learn about genes. They are made by connecting many thousands of tiny computer parts together. Some supercomputers are so big they fill a whole room. The fastest supercomputer in Europe is called Jupiter.
Nuclear family\n\nA nuclear family is a family with a mom, a dad, and their kids. Some families have stepkids or adopted kids too. A nuclear family is part of a bigger family with grandparents, aunts, uncles, and cousins. People have lived in nuclear families for a very long time. A long time ago, in Europe, big family groups were common. Later, the nuclear family became the most common kind of family.
User interface\n\nA user interface is the part of a machine that you can touch or see to tell it what to do. For example, buttons, switches, and screens are parts of a user interface. Some machines can be dangerous, so the user interface must be easy to use even if you are scared. A special button called a kill switch can turn off the machine fast to keep people safe. The kill switch is red on a yellow background so you can find it quickly. Colors on machines are like colors on road signs. Sometimes there are pictures instead of words, because some people cannot see colors well.
Jury\n\nA jury is a group of regular people who go to a court room to help decide if someone did something wrong. They listen to both sides of the story and then say if the person is guilty or not guilty. All the people in the jury have to agree on the answer. Sometimes, if they cannot all agree, the case is not decided. A person on a jury is called a juror. Jurors must be fair and not decide what they think before they hear everything. Some people, like doctors, can ask not to be on a jury.
Police\n\nPolice are people whose job is to keep everyone safe. They help when there is an accident or a fire. Police officers work at a police station. They can arrest people who break the rules. Some police wear uniforms and drive cars. Others wear regular clothes and solve mysteries. Police use radios to talk to each other. In some places, police carry guns. In other places, they do not.
Apennine Mountains\n\nThe Apennine Mountains are a long chain of mountains in Italy. They go from the north of Italy down to the south. The highest mountain in the Apennines is called Corno Grande. It is very tall, but you can still see snow on top. The Apennines have three big parts: the north part, the middle part, and the south part. Many people live near these mountains, and animals like deer and foxes live there too.
Hornet\n\nA hornet is a big kind of wasp. It can be as long as your finger. Hornets live in warm places like forests and deserts. They build nests out of paper. A queen hornet starts the nest in spring. She lays eggs that turn into baby hornets. The first babies become workers. Workers build the nest bigger and find food. Hornets eat flies, bees, beetles, and spiders. They are good for gardens because they eat bugs that hurt plants. Hornets have a stinger that can hurt. They only sting if they feel scared. Some animals look like hornets to stay safe. Hornets do not like cold weather.
Murray River\n\nThe Murray River is the longest river in Australia. It starts high in the Snowy Mountains and flows west, then turns south to reach the ocean. For much of its length, the river forms the border between two states, Victoria and New South Wales. Many other rivers join the Murray, like the Darling and the Murrumbidgee. Together, they make a big area of land that is very important for farming. Long ago, Aboriginal people lived along the river and told stories about how it was made. One story says a hunter chased a big fish, and the fish made the river by wiggling. Later, European explorers came and gave the river its name. People used steamboats to carry things up and down the river, but now trains do most of that work.
Fur\n\nFur is the soft hair that covers many animals. It keeps them warm and safe. Some animals have thick fur, like bears and rabbits. Other animals, like elephants and whales, have very little fur. Fur can be many colors, like brown, white, black, or orange. Baby animals often have soft, fluffy fur.
North Pole\n\nThe North Pole is the very top of the Earth. It is the farthest north place you can go. It is in the middle of a big cold ocean called the Arctic Ocean. The sun does not shine there for half the year, so it is very cold. The ocean is covered by a thick layer of ice. There is also a Magnetic North Pole nearby. A compass points to the magnetic North Pole. A star called the North Star stays in the sky above the North Pole. People can look at the North Star to know how far north they are.
Soyuz (spacecraft)\n\nA Soyuz is a spacecraft that takes people to space. It was first used a long time ago, in the 1960s. The Soyuz goes up on a big rocket and launches from a place called Baikonur in Kazakhstan. It has three parts. One part is where the astronauts live and work, and it has a door to connect to a space station. Another part is where they sit when they go up and come back to Earth. This part has special tiles that keep it from getting too hot. The third part has big wings that catch sunlight to make power. The Soyuz is very safe and is used to take people to the International Space Station. A Soyuz is always parked at the space station so astronauts can come home fast if there is a problem.
Biodiversity\n\nBiodiversity means all the different kinds of living things on Earth. It includes all the animals, plants, and tiny living things like bugs and germs. It also includes the places where they live, like forests, oceans, and deserts. Biodiversity is important because every living thing has a job to do. When there are many different kinds of plants and animals, the world is healthy. Some people work hard to protect biodiversity so that animals and plants do not disappear.
Sparta\n\nSparta was a city in Greece a long time ago. It was very strong and had a powerful army. The city was built in a valley with mountains all around, so it did not need walls for protection. Spartan people lived a simple life without fancy things. They believed only the strongest should live, so weak babies were left on a mountain. Boys left home at age 7 to train as soldiers. Girls went to school to learn wrestling and become strong mothers. Spartan men became soldiers at 20, citizens at 30, and retired at 60. Women were treated more fairly than in other Greek cities. Today, Sparta is a small city with about 16,000 people.
Heron\n\nA heron is a bird that stands in shallow water to find food. It has long legs, a long neck, and a long, pointy beak. Herons eat small fish, frogs, and bugs. They live near ponds, lakes, and rivers. When a heron flies, it pulls its neck back close to its body. Some herons are white and are called egrets. Others are brown and are called bitterns. Herons build nests in trees or in tall grass near water.
Dormouse\n\nA dormouse is a small animal that looks like a mouse. It has a furry tail, not a scaly one. Dormice live in trees in Europe, Africa, and Asia. They are very good at climbing and moving fast. Most dormice come out at night. They have very good hearing and make sounds to talk to each other. Dormice eat fruits, berries, flowers, nuts, and bugs. They sleep for a very long time in winter, sometimes six months or more. This long sleep is called hibernation. Before hibernation, they eat a lot to get fat and save energy. The name "dormouse" means "sleepy one." A baby dormouse is born without hair and cannot see until it is about eighteen days old. Dormice can live up to five years.
Deep-sea fish\n\nDeep-sea fish are fish that live very deep in the ocean, where it is dark and cold. Some deep-sea fish have special lights on their bodies. The anglerfish has a light on its head that looks like a little fishing pole. It uses the light to call other fish close, then eats them. The lanternfish has glowing spots all over its body. The flashlight fish has glowing parts that have tiny living things inside that make light. Some deep-sea fish can live more than 3,500 meters down. Scientists keep finding new kinds of deep-sea fish, like the Mariana snailfish.
Worship\n\nWorship is when people show they love and respect God very much. They might pray, sing songs, or say thank you to God. Some people worship alone, and some worship together in a group. In church, people worship by singing hymns and reading from the Bible. In other religions, people worship in different ways, like praying to Allah.
Inuit\n\nThe Inuit are people who live in very cold places like northern Canada, Greenland, and Alaska. The word Inuit means "the people" in their language, Inuktitut. They are sometimes called Eskimos, but most Inuit do not like that name. Inuit are very good hunters. They hunt seals, whales, caribou, and polar bears for food and clothes. They use dogs to pull sleds and help with hunting. In winter, they build houses out of snow called igloos. In summer, they live in tents made of animal skins. They wear two layers of fur to stay warm. Inuit make boats called kayaks from wood or bone covered with animal skins. They also make tools and dishes from bones and stones. Today, many Inuit live in modern houses but still hunt and fish for food.
Yucca\n\nYucca is a plant that looks like a small tree or bush. It has pointy leaves that stick out. Yucca grows in hot, dry places like deserts. It lives in North America, Central America, and the Caribbean. A special moth helps the yucca make seeds. The moth lays eggs in the plant, and the baby moths eat some of the seeds. People grow yucca in gardens because it looks pretty.
Squash (plant)\n\nA squash is a kind of vegetable that grows on a vine. It comes from the Americas. Pumpkins and zucchini are types of squash. Even though it is a fruit, people cook it like a vegetable. A squash plant can grow very tall, up to fifteen feet. The word "squash" comes from a Native American word that means "a green thing eaten raw." Long ago, people in Peru made clay pots shaped like squashes.
Beijing\n\nBeijing is a big city in China. It is the capital city, which means the country's leaders work there. Many people live in Beijing, more than 20 million. The city is very old and has many special places. People from all over the world visit Beijing. In 2008 and 2022, Beijing had the Olympic Games. It is the only city that had both summer and winter Olympics. The name Beijing means "Northern Capital" in Chinese. Long ago, people called it Peking. Beijing has many schools where students learn.
Volga\n\nThe Volga is a very long river in Europe. It is in Russia, a big country far away. The Volga is the longest river in all of Europe. It starts in some hills and flows for a very long way. Many other rivers flow into it. In winter, parts of the river freeze and become ice. Some big lakes called reservoirs are along the river. Pelicans and flamingoes live near the river's end.
Axle\n\nAn axle is a long stick that goes through the middle of a wheel. The wheel spins around the axle. On a car or a bike, the axle holds the wheels in place. The axle also helps carry the weight of the car and everything inside it.
Valley\n\nA valley is a low part of the land between two higher parts like hills or mountains. Many valleys have a river or stream running through them. The water makes the valley deeper over time. Some valleys are made by ice that moves slowly, like a frozen river. People often live in valleys because there is fresh water and good soil for growing food. Valleys can be V-shaped in mountains or U-shaped where ice has been. Some valleys are very wide and flat, with a big river and many small streams. A very deep and narrow valley with steep sides is called a canyon.
Vanuatu\n\nVanuatu is a country made of many small islands in the big Pacific Ocean. The capital city is Port Vila. People there speak Bislama, English, and French. Long ago, England and France ruled the islands, but Vanuatu became its own country in 1980. The islands were made by volcanos. There are about 82 islands, and people live on 65 of them. The highest mountain is Mount Tabwemasana. Vanuatu has warm forests and many kinds of sea animals. The national food is called lap lap. Most people grow coconuts and kava for work. Visitors come to see the pretty islands.
Robot\n\nA robot is a machine that can move and do work. People tell robots what to do using a computer. Some robots look like people, but most do not. They do not have feelings. Many factories use robots to do hard jobs quickly, like lifting hot metal. Some robots help at home by vacuuming or mowing the grass. There are robots that explore other planets. They can work alone because it takes a long time to send messages from Earth. Robots can also help doctors do surgery inside the body. Japan has the most robots in the world. Some people think robots are good helpers, while others are afraid of them.
Jade Emperor\n\nThe Jade Emperor is a very important god in stories from China. People say he lives in heaven and rules over everything. He is also called Heavenly Grandfather or the Highest Emperor. Long ago, the first god picked the Jade Emperor to be his helper and then to take his place. Some people think the Jade Emperor will be followed by another god later. Every year, on a special day, people go to temples to pray to the Jade Emperor. They lie on the ground, burn incense, and give food as a gift to him.
Causality\n\nCausality is about how one thing makes another thing happen. If you drop a cup and it breaks, the drop is the cause and the break is the effect. Some people think about causes in different ways. For example, if you always see the sun come up after the rooster crows, you might think the rooster causes the sun to rise. But that is not really true. A cause is something that makes something else happen.
Pharmacy\n\nA pharmacy is a shop where you can buy medicine. The people who work there are called pharmacists. They can help you with small sicknesses. Some medicines are special and you need a paper from a doctor to get them. Pharmacies also sell things like soap, shampoo, and other things to keep you clean. Many towns have a small pharmacy shop. There are also pharmacies inside hospitals.
Hamburger\n\nA hamburger is a type of sandwich. It has a round piece of meat inside a soft bun. The meat is usually beef. You can also add tomato, onion, cheese, and sauces. You eat it with your hands, not with a knife and fork. Many fast food places like McDonald's sell hamburgers. A hamburger with cheese is called a cheeseburger. Even though the name has the word ham, it is usually made of beef.
Asia\n\nAsia is the biggest piece of land on Earth. More people live in Asia than anywhere else. Asia has very high mountains, long rivers, and big deserts. Some parts of Asia are very cold, and some parts are very hot. Many old cities and religions started in Asia. There are 48 countries in Asia. Some countries like Russia and Turkey are in both Asia and Europe.
Cricket (insect)\n\nA cricket is a small insect with a flat body and long feelers on its head. It has strong back legs for jumping. Crickets come out at night. They make a sound called a chirp by rubbing their front wings together. The chirp is loud and helps boy crickets find girl crickets. There are many kinds of crickets, and they live all over the world.
Scientific method\n\nThe scientific method is a way scientists learn new things. They ask a question, like 'Does sugar dissolve faster in hot water or cold water?' Then they plan a test, do the test, and look at what happened. They make sure to change only one thing at a time, like the water temperature, so they know what caused the result. Scientists write down what they see and share it with other scientists. If other scientists can do the same test and get the same answer, the idea is stronger. The scientific method helps us find true facts about the world.
Uruguay River\n\nThe Uruguay River is a long, wide river in South America. It flows through three countries: Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay. The river starts in Brazil and is very long. Boats can travel on the river to carry things from one place to another.
White dwarf\n\nA white dwarf is a very small, hot star. It is as heavy as our Sun but only as big as Earth. All the stuff inside it is squished together very tight. Most stars in the sky will turn into white dwarfs when they get old. Our Sun will become a white dwarf one day. A white dwarf does not make its own light anymore. It just glows from leftover heat. It is very hot at first and looks blue or white. Over a very long time, it cools down and gets dimmer. If a white dwarf pulls in too much stuff from another star, it can explode as a supernova.
Thoth\n\nThoth is a god from old Egypt. He was the god of writing and books. People thought he was very smart and helped other gods. Thoth could look like a man with a bird head or like a baboon. He held a writing stick and a flat board. He helped weigh people's hearts after they died. Thoth also made the year have 365 days by winning five days from the moon god. People sang songs and said special words to pray to Thoth. His main home was a town called Khemennu.
Earth\n\nEarth is the planet we live on. It is the third planet from the Sun. Earth is special because it has a lot of water. Most of Earth is covered by oceans. The rest is land with big continents like North America and Africa. Earth has air all around it called the atmosphere. The air has oxygen that we breathe. Earth is like a big ball that spins around. It takes one year to go around the Sun. Earth has one moon that goes around it. The moon makes the ocean go up and down, which we call tides. Earth is the only place we know where people, animals, and plants can live.
Construction\n\nConstruction is the way people build things like houses, schools, and bridges. Long ago, people built huts and shelters with their hands or simple tools. Later, they used machines like cranes and bulldozers to help. Today, builders use strong materials like glass, steel, concrete, and bricks to make buildings. Construction workers put all the pieces together to make a new place for us to live, learn, or play.
Zen\n\nZen is a way of thinking that started a long time ago in China. It came from a bigger way of thinking called Buddhism. People who practice Zen sit very still and quiet to calm their minds. This is called meditation. They also think about special riddles called koans to help their minds grow. The goal is to feel very awake and happy inside. Zen spread from China to Japan and other places. Today, many people in the United States and Europe learn about Zen. Some Zen places have pretty gardens with rocks and sand that look very simple and peaceful.
Jet stream\n\nA jet stream is a very fast wind that blows high up in the sky. It is like a river of air that moves quickly. Airplanes can ride on the jet stream to go faster. The jet stream helps push weather around the world. It can make storms move from one place to another.
Non-governmental organization\n\nA non-governmental organization is a group of people who work together to help others. They are not part of the government. These groups do not try to make money. Instead, they try to do good things, like helping poor people or giving food to those who need it. Some examples are Oxfam and World Vision. Sometimes the government gives them money, but they still make their own choices about how to help.
Lena River\n\nThe Lena River is a very long river in a cold place called Siberia. It starts in the Baikal Mountains and flows all the way to the Arctic Ocean. The river is so big that it is one of the longest rivers in the world. Many other rivers pour their water into the Lena River. The name "Lena" means "The Large River" in the language of the Evenks people who live nearby.
Mythology\n\nMythology is a big word for stories that people tell about a very long time ago. These stories are about gods, heroes, and how the world began. People believed these stories were true. Different groups of people have their own myths. Myths help explain why things are the way they are, like why the sun shines or why we have seasons. Some myths are about creation, which means how the world was made. Myths are different from fairy tales because people think myths are real.
Allah\n\nAllah is a name for God. People who speak Arabic use the word "Allah" to mean God. Muslims call God "Allah" when they pray. Some Arab Christians also call God "Allah". The word comes from a very old word "El" that people used long ago for the most powerful god. Today, many people around the world say "Allah" when they talk about God.
Table tennis\n\nTable tennis is a game you play on a table with a net in the middle. Two or four people hit a small white ball back and forth using paddles. The ball is very light and bounces a lot. You need a table, a net, a ball, and a paddle to play. The game started in England a long time ago. People also call it ping-pong. Many good players come from China. Table tennis is an Olympic sport, which means the best players from around the world compete in the Olympics.
God\n\nGod is a special being that many people believe in. Some people think God made the whole world and everything in it. God is very powerful and cannot die. Different groups of people have different names for God, like Allah or Yahweh. Some people believe in only one God, and some believe in many gods. Many people pray to God and ask for help. No one can see God, but many people feel God is with them.
Vanilla\n\nVanilla is a spice that makes food taste sweet and yummy. It comes from a plant that grows like a vine. The plant has flowers, and the fruit of the plant is called a vanilla bean. Long ago, people in Mexico first grew vanilla. They used it to make chocolate taste better. Today, most vanilla flavor is made in a lab because real vanilla beans cost a lot of money. You can find vanilla in ice cream, cake, and cookies.
Friesian horse\n\nA Friesian horse is a big, strong horse that comes from a place called Friesland in the Netherlands. These horses are always black, with a long, thick mane and tail. They have a proud way of walking and are very beautiful. People like to ride them in shows and parades.
Fireworks display\n\nA fireworks display is a show where colorful lights and loud sounds burst in the sky. People watch fireworks on holidays like the Fourth of July or New Year's Eve. The first fireworks were made a long time ago in China. They used special powders to make bright colors and big booms. When you see a fireworks show, you might hear a loud bang and see red, blue, green, or gold sparks falling down.
Salsa music\n\nSalsa music is a kind of music from Latin America. It mixes music from Cuba and Puerto Rico. People dance to salsa music with fast steps and happy sounds. The music uses drums, horns, and other instruments. Many people in New York City helped make salsa music popular. Some famous salsa singers are Celia Cruz and Willie Colón. Salsa music makes you want to move your feet and clap your hands.
Accra\n\nAccra is a big city in Africa. It is the capital of a country called Ghana. Many people live there. Accra is near the ocean. People in Accra work in banks, shops, and offices. Some people fish in the sea. Long ago, people from other countries built forts there. Today, Accra is a busy and modern city.
Gull\n\nA gull is a bird that lives near water. Most gulls are white with gray or black wings and a yellow beak. They are about the size of a chicken. Gulls eat many kinds of food, but they like meat best. They look for food on beaches, in streets, and at garbage dumps. Gulls are smart birds. They make sounds and move their bodies to talk to each other. Mother gulls take good care of their eggs and baby birds.
Punjabi language\n\nPunjabi is a language that many people speak. It comes from a place called Punjab, which is in two countries: India and Pakistan. About 230 million people speak Punjabi as their first language. That is a lot of people! Punjabi is the main language of the Sikh religion. The holy book of the Sikhs, called the Guru Granth Sahib, is mostly written in Punjabi. Punjabi can be written in different ways, like Gurmukhi and Shahmukhi. People in Pakistan use Shahmukhi, and people in India use Gurmukhi. Many people in the United Kingdom and Canada also speak Punjabi.
Green\n\nGreen is a color you can see in the rainbow between yellow and blue. You can make green paint by mixing yellow and blue paint together. Many leaves on trees and bushes are green. That is because leaves have a special part inside that makes them green.
Sorghum\n\nSorghum is a kind of grass that grows in warm places. It can live in very hot and dry weather. People in Africa eat sorghum as food. The plant has tall stalks and seeds on top.
San Diego\n\nSan Diego is a big city in California, near the ocean. It has warm, sunny weather most of the year. There are many beaches where people can play in the sand and swim in the water. The San Diego Zoo is a famous place with lots of animals. San Diego also has a baseball team called the San Diego Padres. The city is close to Mexico, so people can visit another country. Long ago, Spanish people came and built the first mission in California. Now many people live in San Diego, and it is a fun place to visit.
Oligarchy\n\nOligarchy is a way a country is run. In an oligarchy, a small group of people have all the power. These people are often the strongest or the richest. Sometimes the group is made of a few families. When the richest people rule, it is called plutocracy. When the best people rule, it is called aristocracy.
Italian food\n\nItalian food is food that comes from Italy. People in different parts of Italy cook in different ways. Some foods are found all over Italy, like pasta, pizza, ice cream, and bread. Olives grow in Italy and are used to make olive oil. Italians also make coffee and special drinks. Many people around the world love to eat Italian food.
Uffizi\n\nThe Uffizi is a big building in Florence, Italy, where many old paintings and statues are kept for people to see. It is one of the oldest and most famous art museums in the world. The building was first made as offices for the city, and that is why it is called Uffizi, which means "offices." Later, a duke named Cosimo put his family's best art inside. One special room is shaped like an octagon and has many beautiful paintings. Long ago, only rich people could visit, but now anyone can go. In summer, many people wait a long time to get in. The Uffizi has famous paintings and old stone statues, like the "Two Wrestlers."
Curve\n\nA curve is a line that turns or bends. It is never straight. A circle is a kind of curve that goes all the way around. Some curves are flat on paper, and some curves twist like a spring.
Knitting\n\nKnitting is a way to make soft cloth by looping yarn together with two long sticks called knitting needles. You can make things like scarves, hats, socks, and blankets. Yarn comes in many colors and can be made from wool, cotton, or other soft materials. Some knitting makes flat pieces, and some makes tubes like socks. Different loops make different patterns, like bumpy or stretchy parts.
Dubai\n\nDubai is a big city in a country called the United Arab Emirates. It is very hot there, especially in summer. The city has a very tall building called Burj Khalifa, which is the tallest building in the world. There is also a big fountain that dances to music with lights. Some parts of the city are built on special islands that look like a palm tree. Long ago, Dubai was a small town where people traded pearls. Today, many people visit Dubai to shop and see the tall buildings.
Cemetery\n\nA cemetery is a place where people put the bodies of people who have died. It is usually inside a fence. Many cemeteries have gardens and pretty plants. People go there to remember the people they loved.
Infrastructure\n\nInfrastructure is all the big things people build to help us live. It includes roads for cars, pipes for water, bridges to cross rivers, and schools where we learn. It also has hospitals for when we are sick, trains to ride, and places where food is kept. When a place has good infrastructure, people can get water, go to school, and see a doctor. When a place does not have enough infrastructure, life can be harder.
Turkey\n\nTurkey is a country that sits in both Europe and Asia. It is like a door between the two places. The capital city is Ankara, but the biggest city is Istanbul. Many people live in Turkey, about 80 million. Most people speak Turkish. The money used in Turkey is called the Turkish Lira. Turkey has warm beaches and old buildings that people like to visit. The country makes food, clothes, cars, and planes. Many people in Turkey eat foods like kebap, baklava, and Turkish delight.
French Polynesia\n\nFrench Polynesia is a group of many islands in the big ocean. The islands are in the southern part of the Pacific Ocean. The most famous island is Tahiti, where many people live. The main town is called Papeete. Other islands have pretty names like Bora Bora and Moorea. French Polynesia is a part of France, but it is far away across the ocean. The people there speak French and Tahitian. The islands have warm weather, blue water, and sandy beaches.
Adriatic Sea\n\nThe Adriatic Sea is a big body of water that is part of the Mediterranean Sea. It sits between Italy and other countries like Croatia and Albania. The sea is not very deep in most places, but some parts are very deep. Many boats and ships travel on the Adriatic Sea.
Border\n\nA border is a line that shows where one place ends and another place starts. If the places are countries, you can only cross the border at special spots. Sometimes you need a special paper called a passport to go across.
Red\n\nRed is a color you can see in a rainbow. It is one of the main colors, along with blue and yellow. Red light has a long wave. You can make red paint by mixing yellow and magenta paint. Red is used to show things that are wrong, important, or dangerous. It also tells you to stop.
Rain\n\nRain is water that falls from clouds in the sky. It is part of the water cycle. Some places get a lot of rain and become rainforests. Some places get very little rain and become deserts. A rainstorm is a sudden heavy fall of rain that can cause floods. Rain helps plants grow. People collect rain in tanks to use for watering plants or cleaning. But rain is not always safe to drink because it can have tiny germs.
Numerical digit\n\nA numerical digit is a single number sign, like the ones you write with a pencil. For example, the number 56 has two digits: a 5 and a 6. The ten digits we use every day are 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. With these ten digits, you can write any number you want. Some number systems use letters too, like A, B, C, D, E, and F, but that is for special math.
Direct current\n\nDirect current is a kind of electricity that flows one way. It goes from the negative side to the positive side. Batteries make direct current. Solar panels also make direct current. Direct current always goes the same direction. It is different from the electricity in your house, which goes back and forth. Some things, like toys with batteries, use direct current.
Politics\n\nPolitics is how people in groups make decisions together. In big groups like countries, some people called politicians spend time making rules. These rules help everyone live safely, like a rule that says you must not drive after drinking. Politicians often join together in groups called political parties. They work together to agree on ideas and make laws. Sometimes countries talk to each other to solve problems, and that is called diplomacy.
Flood\n\nA flood is when too much water covers the land. Floods happen when a river overflows, when it rains very hard, or when snow melts fast. The water can get into people's houses and make them wet. During a flood, people try to go to higher ground where the water cannot reach. The flood water is dirty and not safe to drink. People can get ready for a flood by filling clean bottles with drinking water and keeping food and medicine safe.
Sapphire\n\nA sapphire is a pretty blue stone that comes from the ground. It is very hard and strong. Some sapphires are blue, but they can also be other colors like yellow or orange. Long ago, people thought sapphires were lucky and wise. Kings and queens wore them on rings and crowns. Princess Diana had a blue sapphire ring. Sapphires are the birthday stone for September. They are so hard that people sometimes use them to polish other things. Most sapphires come from countries in Asia, like India and Sri Lanka.
Orphanage\n\nAn orphanage is a big building where children live when they do not have parents to take care of them. The people who work there give the children food, a bed to sleep in, and keep them safe. Some children come to an orphanage because their parents are very sick or have died. Other children come because their parents could not take care of them. The grown-ups at the orphanage try to help the children feel happy and loved.
Great Rift Valley\n\nThe Great Rift Valley is a very long, deep crack in the ground. It goes from far away in Asia all the way down to Africa. The crack is so big that you can see it from space. It is made by the ground slowly pulling apart. Some parts of Africa are moving away from each other. This makes tall mountains and hot volcanoes. There are also big lakes in the valley. Some lakes are very deep and have salty water. Many animals live near the lakes and mountains. People visit the Great Rift Valley to see the beautiful sights.
Church (building)\n\nA church is a building where people meet to pray together. Most of the people who go to church are called Christians. Some churches are very big, and some are very small. Small churches are called chapels. Inside a church, there are long benches called pews where people sit. At the front, there is a special table called an altar. There is also a tall stand called a pulpit where a priest talks. Many churches have pretty windows with colored glass. People go to church to sing songs and listen to stories from the Bible.
Perch\n\nA perch is a fish that lives in fresh water like ponds, lakes, and rivers. It has rough scales and a round body that helps it swim fast. Perch have two fins on top: one with sharp spines and one that is soft. They eat smaller fish, bugs, and tiny animals in the water. People like to catch perch for fun and also eat them because they taste good.
Glass\n\nGlass is a hard material that you can see through. It is used to make windows, bottles, and jars. Glass can be clear or colored. Blue glass has a tiny bit of cobalt in it. Old windows sometimes look thicker at the bottom, but that is because of how they were made long ago. Glass can be recycled many times to make new bottles and jars.
Arab people\n\nArab people are a group of people who live in West Asia and North Africa. They speak a language called Arabic. Many Arab people follow the religion of Islam. Some Arab people are Christians. Arab people have their own traditions and ways of life. They live in countries like Egypt, Syria, and Saudi Arabia.
Pluto\n\nPluto is a small, cold world far away from the Sun. It is made of rock and ice. Pluto is so far away that it is very, very cold there. For a long time, people called Pluto a planet. But in 2006, scientists decided that Pluto is a dwarf planet. That means it is smaller than the other planets. Pluto has five moons. The biggest moon is called Charon. The other moons are named Nix, Hydra, Kerberos, and Styx. A girl named Venetia gave Pluto its name. She was 11 years old. She thought the name of the Roman god of the underworld was good for such a dark and cold place.
Echinoderm\n\nEchinoderms are animals that live in the ocean. They have spiny skin and five parts that go around in a circle, like a star. Sea stars, sea urchins, and sea cucumbers are echinoderms. They live on the ocean floor, near the shore, and on reefs. Echinoderms have tiny tube feet that help them move and eat. Some can grow back a lost arm. Baby echinoderms float in the water before they grow up.
Zambezi River\n\nThe Zambezi River is a very big river in Africa. It starts in Zambia and flows through other countries like Angola, Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, and Mozambique. At the end, it goes into the Indian Ocean. The river has a lot more water when it rains from October to March. There is a famous waterfall on the river called Victoria Falls. It is very beautiful and a special place. There is also a big dam called Kariba Dam that makes electricity from the river's water.
Baptism\n\nBaptism is a special ceremony that some people do with water. Christians and Sikhs have baptism. For Christians, it shows that a person wants to follow Jesus and be part of God's family. Some churches baptize babies, and some wait until the person is older. In baptism, water is put on the person's head, or the person is put under water. Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist a long time ago.
Polygon\n\nA polygon is a flat shape with straight sides. The sides are like lines that meet at corners. A triangle has three sides and three corners. A square has four sides and four corners. If all the sides are the same length and all the corners are the same size, it is called a regular polygon. Some polygons have sides that cross each other, and some do not. People who make computer pictures often use triangles to build shapes.
Cell\n\nA cell is the smallest living part of your body. Every living thing is made of cells. Your skin, your bones, and even your blood are all made of tiny cells. Cells are so small you need a special tool called a microscope to see them. Inside a cell there is a round part called the nucleus that holds the instructions for how your body works. Cells also have a thin skin around them called the cell membrane that keeps everything inside. Cells can make more cells by splitting in half. Some living things have only one cell, like tiny germs. Other living things, like you and me, have many, many cells.
Aqueduct\n\nAn aqueduct is a special path that people build to move water from one place to another. It can be a pipe, a ditch, a tunnel, or a bridge that carries water. Aqueducts bring water to cities and towns so people can drink, wash, and water plants. Some aqueducts are big enough for boats to float on. People have built aqueducts for a very long time.
Screw\n\nA screw is a sharp piece of metal that looks like a nail but has lines that go around it. You push a screw into wood and turn it with a tool called a screwdriver. Turning it to the right makes it go in, and turning it to the left pulls it out. The lines on the screw help it stay in the wood so it does not fall out. Screws can be made of different kinds of metal. They are used to hold things together, like furniture, doors, and toys. A screw is a simple machine.
Camouflage\n\nCamouflage is when an animal looks like the place where it lives. This helps the animal hide from other animals that want to eat it. For example, a tiger has stripes that look like tall grass. Some animals change color to match where they are. A chameleon can change its color fast. Arctic animals like the fox turn white in winter to hide in the snow. Other animals, like zebras, have stripes that make it hard for a lion to see them when they run together. Some animals even look like leaves or sticks. Camouflage helps animals stay safe.
Congolian rainforests\n\nThe Congolian rainforests are big, wet forests in the middle of Africa. They have the second largest rainforest in the world, after the Amazon. Many animals live there, like chimpanzees, bonobos, gorillas, hippos, elephants, and okapis. Okapis look like zebras but are related to giraffes. The forests have lots of trees and plants. People have lived there for a long time, but some were treated badly by others who came from far away.
Blood type\n\nBlood type is a way to tell what kind of blood you have. Your blood has tiny things on it called markers. There are four main blood types: A, B, AB, and O. Some blood also has a thing called the Rh factor, which makes it positive or negative. Doctors need to know your blood type before they give you blood from someone else. If the blood types do not match, your body can get very sick. People with type O negative blood can give blood to anyone. People with type AB positive blood can take blood from anyone. You get your blood type from your mom and dad.
Tehran\n\nTehran is a big city and the capital of Iran. It is the largest city in Iran, with many people living there. Tehran has hot summers and cold winters with snow. There are many old palaces, museums, and parks to visit. People in Tehran make cars, carpets, and other things. Some people like to ski in the mountains near Tehran.
Stone Age\n\nThe Stone Age was a very long time ago when people used stones to make tools. They made tools from a hard stone called flint. They also used wood, animal horns, and bones, but those things break down over time. Stone Age people ate berries, fish, and animals like mammoths. They lived in shelters made from animal skins. Later, people learned to grow food and take care of animals like cows and pigs. Then they learned to make tools from metal, and the Stone Age ended.
Species\n\nA species is a kind of living thing. All animals or plants that are the same kind belong to the same species. For example, all cats are one species, and all dogs are another species. Cats make more cats, and dogs make more dogs. There are many different species on Earth, like birds, fish, and trees. Some species look very similar but are still different. Scientists think there are about 8.7 million species on Earth, but we have only found a few of them.
Eritrea\n\nEritrea is a country on the east coast of Africa. It is next to the Red Sea. Eritrea is one of the smallest countries in Africa. It became its own country in 1993. Many different groups of people live there. They speak different languages like Tigrinya and Tigre. The capital city is Asmara. The money used in Eritrea is called the Nakfa.
Oasis\n\nAn oasis is a small, green place in the middle of a hot, dry desert. It has water, so plants like trees and grass can grow there. Animals come to the oasis to drink water. Long ago, people traveling across the desert on camels would stop at an oasis to get more water and food. Oases are like little islands of life in the sand.
Marlin\n\nA marlin is a big fish that lives in the ocean. It has a long, pointy nose that looks like a spear. Marlin can swim very fast. People who fish for fun often let the marlin go after they catch it. Some people eat marlin in fancy restaurants. It can be cooked in many ways, like grilling or baking, and some people eat it raw.
Physical geography\n\nPhysical geography is about the land, water, air, and living things on Earth. It looks at mountains, rivers, deserts, and forests. Physical geography helps us understand why some places are hot and dry, and other places are cold and snowy. It also helps us see why many people live near big rivers and not in deserts.
Hickory\n\nHickory is a big tree that grows in the woods. It has leaves that look like feathers, with many small leaves on one stem. In spring, the tree grows tiny yellow-green flowers that hang down like fuzzy tails. The wind blows the flower dust from one tree to another to make nuts. Hickory nuts are big and hard, and some animals like to eat them.
Lake Chad\n\nLake Chad is a big, shallow lake in Africa. It sits near the Sahara Desert. The lake gives water to many people in four countries: Chad, Cameroon, Niger, and Nigeria. The lake has gotten much smaller over time, but sometimes it gets bigger again. Very old bones of an early human-like creature were found where the lake used to be.
Argentina\n\nArgentina is a big country in South America. It is the second biggest country in South America and the eighth biggest in the world. The capital city is Buenos Aires, which is one of the largest cities in the world. People in Argentina speak Spanish, but some also speak Italian, German, or English. Argentina has tall mountains called the Andes on one side and the Atlantic Ocean on the other. The country is very long from north to south. Many people in Argentina are from families that came from Europe a long time ago. Soccer is the most popular sport there. The food includes beef and pasta. Argentina became its own country in 1816.
Fungus\n\nA fungus is a living thing that is not a plant or an animal. Some fungi are tiny like yeast, and some are big like mushrooms. Fungi cannot make their own food from sunlight like plants do. Instead, they eat dead things like old leaves or rotting wood. Many fungi grow as thin threads called hyphae that spread underground or inside old logs. Mushrooms are the part of a fungus that makes tiny seeds called spores. The spores float through the air to grow new fungi. Some fungi are safe to eat, like mushrooms you buy at the store. Other fungi can make you sick if you eat them. People use yeast to make bread rise and to make cheese taste different. Some fungi are used to make medicine that fights germs.
Hunting dog\n\nA hunting dog is a dog that helps people find and catch animals. There are many kinds of hunting dogs. Some use their eyes to see animals far away. Some use their nose to smell where animals are. Some dogs find birds and make them fly up so the hunter can shoot. Other dogs go into holes to chase out animals like foxes. Some dogs are very good at swimming and bring back ducks from the water. Different countries like England and America have their own favorite hunting dogs.
Dagger\n\nA dagger is a small knife that people use to stab. It has a sharp blade on both sides, so you cannot cut food with it. Long ago, soldiers carried daggers to fight. Some people hid daggers under their clothes. A very old leader named Julius Caesar was hurt with a dagger.
Pasta\n\nPasta is a food made from flour and water. It is cooked in hot water before you eat it. People in Italy eat a lot of pasta. Pasta can be long like noodles or short like bow-ties. You can eat pasta with sauce, in soup, or fried. Pasta comes in many shapes and sizes.
Night\n\nNight is the time when the Sun is not in the sky. It is dark outside, and you can see the Moon and stars. Night happens because the Earth turns, and the Sun shines on the other side of the world. Night starts when the Sun goes down and ends when the Sun comes up again. Sometimes, during a solar eclipse, it gets dark for a little while even in the daytime.
Comedy\n\nComedy is a kind of fun that makes people laugh. It can be a play, a movie, or a TV show. Long ago in Greece, people made comedy plays. One funny type is slapstick, where people trip or fall on purpose. Charlie Chaplin was a funny man in old movies with no sound. Today, comedy shows on TV are called sitcoms. They show silly characters doing funny things.
Pressure\n\nPressure is how hard something pushes on something else. If you push with your hand, the push is spread out. If you push with just one finger, the push is smaller but harder on one spot. That is because the same push on a smaller spot makes more pressure. Air around us also pushes on everything. We call that air pressure. A tool called a barometer can measure air pressure.
Archaeology\n\nArchaeology is how we learn about people who lived a very long time ago. People called archaeologists dig in the ground to find old things like coins, tools, and pieces of buildings. These things tell us how people used to live. Sometimes they find old ships under the water or things frozen in ice. They write down everything they find and put it in a museum so we can see it.
Romeo and Juliet\n\nRomeo and Juliet is a play about two young people who love each other. Their families are enemies and do not like each other. Romeo and Juliet meet at a party and fall in love. They get married in secret. But bad things happen, and both Romeo and Juliet die. After that, the families stop being enemies. The play was written a long time ago by a man named William Shakespeare. It is very famous and has been made into movies and songs.
Juice\n\nJuice is a liquid that comes from fruits. People squeeze fruits like oranges, apples, and grapes to get the juice out. You can buy juice in bottles at the store. Some juice is good for you because it has vitamins that help your body stay healthy. If a fruit has a lot of juice, we say it is juicy.
South Island\n\nThe South Island is a big piece of land in New Zealand. It is bigger than the other main island, the North Island. A strip of water called Cook Strait sits between them. The weather there is not too hot and not too cold. Some people call it Te Wai Pounamu. About one out of every four people in New Zealand live on the South Island.
Dictionary\n\nA dictionary is a book that tells you what words mean. The words are in ABC order so you can find them fast. Some dictionaries help you say words in another language. A big dictionary also shows how to say a word and where it came from. Dictionaries get new words added when language changes.
Stable\n\nA stable is a building where animals like horses and cows live. It is often near a farmhouse. Inside, there are separate rooms called stalls for each animal. Up high, there is a loft where hay is kept for the animals to eat in winter. A long time ago, baby Jesus was born in a stable and slept on straw in a manger.
Mauna Loa\n\nMauna Loa is a big volcano in Hawaii. It is one of the biggest volcanoes on Earth. Mauna Loa means "long mountain" in Hawaiian. It is very tall, even taller than Mount Everest if you measure from the bottom of the ocean. The volcano is shaped like a shield, so it is called a shield volcano. Mauna Loa sometimes erupts hot lava. The last time it erupted was in 2022. It has erupted many times before. The lava from a big eruption made a long trail that is 51 kilometers long.
Peregrine falcon\n\nThe peregrine falcon is a bird that hunts other animals. It has a blue-grey back, a white belly with dark bars, and a black head that looks like it has a mustache. It is about as big as a crow. The peregrine falcon is the fastest animal in the world. When it dives down to catch food, it can go faster than a car on a highway. The female falcon is bigger than the male. These birds eat other birds. Long ago, some people used a bad chemical that made the falcon eggs have thin shells, so many falcons died. Now that chemical is not used in many places, and the falcons are coming back. People also help by protecting where they make their nests.
Home appliance\n\nA home appliance is a machine that helps you do jobs at home, like cooking food or cleaning. Some appliances, like a toaster or a microwave, help you make meals. Others, like a vacuum cleaner or a washing machine, help you clean your house or your clothes. These machines make it easier for people to take care of their home.
Gas station\n\nA gas station is a place where cars and trucks go to get fuel. The fuel comes out of a pump and goes into the car's tank. Most gas stations also have a small store where you can buy snacks and drinks. Some gas stations have a car wash where you can get your car cleaned.
Security\n\nSecurity means keeping people and things safe from danger. Airports and banks have security to stop bad things from happening. Prisons have security to keep prisoners inside and safe. Some places have very strong security to make sure no one can get in or out. Security can be locks, guards, or cameras that watch over a place.
Uruguay\n\nUruguay is a country in South America. People there speak Spanish. The biggest city is Montevideo. Uruguay is next to two big countries, Brazil and Argentina. The land is mostly flat with many farms. The weather is warm. Many people in Uruguay have families from Europe. The most popular sport is football, and Uruguay's team has won the World Cup two times.
Electrical engineering\n\nElectrical engineering is a job where people think and make things that use electricity. These people are called electrical engineers. They fix or make new things that run on electricity, like lights, motors, and computers. They also help make robots and machines that move by themselves. A long time ago, people learned about electricity in school. When people started using electricity to make motors and send messages far away, they needed special workers for that. That is how electrical engineering began. Later, when radio became important, some engineers worked on that too.
Siamese cat\n\nA Siamese cat is a kind of cat from Thailand. It has blue eyes and a brown face, ears, tail, and paws. Its body is light-colored. Siamese cats are very friendly and love to be with people. They are smart and like to play. Some Siamese cats make loud sounds that sound like a baby crying. They like to talk to their owners. Siamese cats sleep at night and are awake during the day.
Battering ram\n\nA battering ram is a big, heavy log that people used long ago to break down castle walls and doors. Many people would carry the log and hit it against the wall again and again until the wall cracked and broke open. Later, the log was covered with a roof to protect the people from arrows and fire, and it was put on wheels so it could roll. Today, police and soldiers use small battering rams to break open locked doors.
Guppy\n\nA guppy is a small fish that lives in water. People like to keep guppies in fish tanks at home because they are pretty and not hard to take care of. Guppies come in many bright colors like red, blue, and yellow. Boy guppies are smaller than girl guppies. Guppies have gills to breathe underwater. They eat tiny bits of fish food. A mother guppy does not lay eggs; instead, she gives birth to live baby guppies. That is why guppies are called livebearers.
Disease\n\nA disease is when something bad happens to your body or mind and makes you feel sick. Diseases can hurt, stop parts of your body from working right, or make you very ill. Germs like tiny bugs called bacteria or viruses can cause diseases. They can get into your body through food, water, or air. Eating old or bad food can also make you sick. Some diseases come from mosquito bites. Other diseases are passed down from parents to children. Doctors can help with medicine or surgery. Some diseases get better, but some last a long time. You can help stop diseases by washing your hands and getting shots that teach your body to fight germs.
Anger\n\nAnger is a strong feeling that happens when something is not fair or when you cannot get what you want. It can make your face look mad, your body get tight, and your heart beat fast. Sometimes people yell or stomp their feet when they are angry. Animals can feel angry too. Anger is like a big bubble inside you that grows and grows. It is okay to feel angry, but it is important to calm down so you do not hurt anyone. Taking deep breaths can help you feel better.
Tardigrade\n\nA tardigrade is a very tiny animal that lives in water. It is also called a water bear. Tardigrades are so small you need a microscope to see them. They have a round body with four pairs of legs, and each leg has little claws. Tardigrades can be found in moss, in the ocean, and on high mountains. They are very tough animals. They can live without water for more than ten years. They can also live in very hot or very cold places. Some tardigrades even survived in outer space for ten days. They eat plant cells or other tiny animals.
Hungary\n\nHungary is a country in Europe. It does not touch any ocean. Hungary is next to seven other countries: Slovakia, Ukraine, Romania, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, and Austria. The biggest river in Hungary is the Danube. The capital city is Budapest, which is the largest city. Most people in Hungary speak Hungarian. The country has big flat plains and some hills. There is a big lake called Lake Balaton. Hungary also has warm baths where people can swim. The highest mountain is called Kékes. In the past, Hungary was a kingdom. Today, it is a country where people vote for their leaders.
Choreography\n\nChoreography is making up dances. A person who does this is called a choreographer. They tell dancers how to move. They make dances for music or for a story. They also teach dancers in ballet, shows, and dance contests. Choreography is used in ice skating, movies, and TV. Some choreographers plan fight scenes for movies, like sword fights.
Technical drawing\n\nTechnical drawing is a way to make special pictures that show how things work or how to build them. People use these pictures to share ideas about making machines, houses, roads, and bridges. The pictures use simple shapes and marks that everyone understands. A person who makes these drawings is called a drafter. They help engineers and builders know exactly what to do.
Humanism\n\nHumanism is a way of thinking about the world. It says people should use their brains and look at facts to decide what is true. Humanists do not believe in magic or stories without proof. They think science can help us understand things and make the world a better place. Humanists believe people can be good without needing a god to tell them how to act. Long ago, people in Greece and China had ideas like this. Today, many scientists and thinkers are humanists.
Cardinal (bird)\n\nA cardinal is a bird with bright red feathers. It lives in North and South America. The male cardinal is bright red all over. The female cardinal is brown with some red on her wings and tail. Both have a black face and a big orange beak. They like to eat seeds and fruits. You can see them at bird feeders in winter. They sing a pretty song that sounds like 'cheer, cheer, cheer.'
Electricity\n\nElectricity is a kind of energy that flows through wires. It makes lights turn on, machines work, and toys move. Electricity can come from lightning in the sky or from big machines called generators. It travels through metal wires, like copper, but not through plastic or rubber. Water can also let electricity flow, so it is dangerous to touch wires near water. Electricity is made when tiny things called electrons move. They push and pull on each other. When you turn on a switch, electricity flows in a circle called a circuit. This makes your lamp shine or your TV play. People called electricians fix wires and keep electricity safe in homes.
Barn\n\nA barn is a big building on a farm. Farmers use barns to keep hay, tools, and animals safe. Many barns have a place for horses to sleep, called a stable. Most barns are painted red with white edges. The word barn is very old and means a place to store grain.
Operating system\n\nAn operating system is a special kind of program that helps a computer work. It lets you use the keyboard, mouse, and screen. It also runs other programs like games and drawing apps. Some operating systems are big, like Windows on a home computer. Others are small, like the one inside a microwave. An operating system makes sure that all the programs share the computer's parts, like the memory and the processor. It also shows you pictures and buttons so you can click on them. Examples are Windows, macOS, Android, and Linux.
Planetary system\n\nA planetary system is a star with planets and other things going around it. Our Sun and its planets, including Earth, are one planetary system. Many other stars far away also have their own planets. Some stars have just one planet, and some have many. The place where a planet is not too hot and not too cold is called the habitable zone. That is where life might be able to live. Scientists have found thousands of planets around other stars. Some of those stars have more than one planet, just like our Sun.
Shield\n\nA shield is something you hold to block things that might hurt you. Long ago, people made shields from animal skin and wood to stop arrows and hand weapons. Some shields were shaped like a kite and were very heavy. Later, people used smaller round shields that were easier to move. Today, police and soldiers still use shields made from strong materials. Some shields are even worn as vests or gloves to keep people safe.
Breakfast\n\nBreakfast is the first meal you eat after waking up in the morning. You eat it when you get out of bed. The word breakfast means to stop not eating. People all over the world eat different foods for breakfast. Some eat cereal with milk. Some eat eggs and toast. Some eat rice or soup. Breakfast gives you energy to play and learn all day.
Bird-of-paradise\n\nA bird-of-paradise is a colorful bird that lives in warm forests. These birds live in places like Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, and Australia. The boy birds have very bright feathers and do funny dances to show off. The girl birds pick the boy they like best. Some birds-of-paradise are small like a big bug, and some are as long as your arm. They eat fruit and sometimes bugs. Their nests are made of leaves and soft things up in a tree.
Epic poetry\n\nEpic poetry is a very long story told in a poem. It has people in it and happens in many different places. Long ago, before people could write, they told epic poems out loud. One famous epic poem is called "Beowulf." Some epic poems are very, very long. They tell about big adventures and brave heroes.
Rake\n\nA rake is a tool you use in the garden or on a farm. It has a long handle and a row of teeth at the end. You can use a rake to gather leaves, hay, or grass into a pile. A rake can also help you loosen the dirt in the ground and pull out weeds and dead grass.
Danube\n\nThe Danube is a very long river in Europe. It is the second longest river there. The river starts in Germany and flows through ten countries, including Austria, Hungary, and Romania. It ends in the Black Sea. Big cities like Vienna and Budapest are on the Danube. Big ships can travel on the river to carry things. The river has many fish and plants, but pollution can hurt them.
Debit card\n\nA debit card is a flat plastic card that people use to pay for things. When you buy something with a debit card, the money comes right out of your bank account. It works only if you have enough money in the bank. A debit card looks like a credit card, but it does not borrow money. You can use it at stores or to get cash from a machine.
Vegetable oil\n\nVegetable oil is a kind of oil that comes from plants. People use it to cook food in a pan or to make salad dressing. Some vegetable oils come from olives, peanuts, sunflowers, or corn. Long ago, people burned vegetable oil in lamps to make light. Margarine is a spread that looks like butter and is made from vegetable oil.
Masonry\n\nMasonry is a way to build walls and other things using bricks or stones. Workers put the bricks or stones together with a sticky paste called mortar. This makes the wall very strong and it can last a long time. You can see masonry in many buildings, walls, and tall monuments. Brick is the most common kind of masonry.
Spring (water)\n\nA spring is a place where water comes out of the ground. The water can come out all year or only sometimes. That depends on how much rain or snow falls. The water from a spring often flows downhill and makes a river. Some spring water is good for your health. People who are sick go to these springs to feel better. Towns that grow near these springs are called spa towns.
Nanning\n\nNanning is a big city in southern China. It is the most important city in a place called Guangxi. Many people live there. The city has lots of buildings, streets, and parks. People in Nanning speak Chinese and some speak Zhuang.
Kiwifruit\n\nKiwifruit is a fruit that looks like a small oval. It has thin brown skin that feels fuzzy, like a soft brush. Inside, the fruit is bright green with tiny black seeds that you can eat. Kiwifruit tastes sweet and soft. It grows on a vine, which is a plant that climbs up like a long rope. The fruit comes from South China, but people grow it in many places like Italy, New Zealand, and Chile. Kiwifruit is very healthy. It has lots of vitamin C, which helps your body stay strong. Eating a kiwifruit gives you more vitamin C than eating an orange. Some kiwifruit are golden on the inside and taste even sweeter than the green ones. You can eat a kiwifruit as a snack, and it is good for your skin and your tummy.
Velociraptor\n\nVelociraptor was a dinosaur that lived a long time ago. It was about as long as a big bed and as tall as a small table. It had sharp claws on its feet and hands. One claw on each foot was shaped like a big, curved hook. Velociraptor had feathers all over its body, like a bird. It could not fly, but the feathers kept it warm. It ate meat and was very fast. Velociraptor lived in a hot, dry place with sand dunes. People found its bones in the Gobi Desert.
Handbag\n\nA handbag is a bag that people, mostly women, use to carry their things. It can be big or small and comes in many colors and shapes. Inside a handbag you might find a wallet, keys, a phone, a water bottle, or a small toy. Some handbags are called purses or clutches. Long ago, men also carried small bags for coins. The oldest bag ever found is more than 5000 years old and belonged to a man.
Venn diagram\n\nA Venn diagram is a picture that shows how groups of things are the same or different. It uses circles that can overlap. The part where circles overlap shows things that belong to both groups. For example, one circle could be for animals that have two legs, and another circle for animals that can fly. A parrot goes in the middle because it has two legs and can fly. A penguin goes in the two-legs circle but not in the fly circle. A mosquito goes in the fly circle but not in the two-legs circle. A whale goes outside both circles. Venn diagrams help us see how things are alike and different.
Yoruba people\n\nYoruba people are a group of people who live in Africa. They live on the west coast of Africa, mostly in a country called Nigeria. They have their own language, food, and stories.
Mantra\n\nA mantra is a group of words or sounds that people say or think. Long ago, people in India used mantras to ask for help from gods. Some mantras have meanings, and some are just sounds. People believe mantras can make them feel better or bring good things. Some people say mantras out loud, and some say them quietly in their head.
Oslo\n\nOslo is a big city in a country called Norway. It is the most important city in Norway, where the government and the king's helpers work. Many people live there. You can see museums, a big park called Frogner Park, and a pretty opera house. People get around by tram, subway, or bus. Oslo has a famous old fort called Akershus Fortress. A long time ago, a king named Harald started the city. The city had a big fire, and a new king built it again and gave it a new name. Later, the name changed back to Oslo.
Pleiades\n\nThe Pleiades are a group of stars in the night sky. You can see them in the part of the sky that looks like a bull. They are also called the Seven Sisters. The stars look like tiny bright dots close together. The brightest star in the group is named Alcyone. The Pleiades are very far away, but they are one of the closest star groups to Earth.
Federation\n\nA federation is a big country made of smaller parts called states or regions. These smaller parts have their own leaders who can make some rules. But there is also one big leader for the whole country. The United States of America is a federation. So are Canada, Germany, Australia, and Switzerland. In a federation, the states can do many things by themselves, like deciding some laws for their own people.
High-speed rail\n\nHigh-speed rail is a very fast train that people ride to go from one city to another. These trains go much faster than normal trains. Some high-speed trains can go as fast as a car on a highway, but many go even faster. The first high-speed train was in Japan, and it was called the Shinkansen. People use high-speed trains to travel quickly between faraway places.
Freedom of speech\n\nFreedom of speech is when you can say what you think without someone stopping you or being mean to you. It is like having a rule that lets people talk about their ideas. In some places, people can say what they want, but they cannot yell 'fire' in a movie theater if there is no fire, because that could scare everyone. Freedom of speech helps people tell the government what they need. But sometimes people are scared to say things because others might not like it.
Prime Meridian\n\nThe Prime Meridian is a make-believe line that goes from the top of the world to the bottom. It passes through a place in London, England, called the Royal Observatory. People use this line to say where a place is on a globe or map. If a place is to the east or west of the Prime Meridian, we can find it. Many people visit the Observatory to stand on the line. The line also goes through other countries like France, Spain, and Ghana.
Chinese mythology\n\nChinese mythology is a set of old stories and beliefs from China. Long ago, people told tales about how the world began. One story says the universe started as a big egg. A giant grew inside the egg for many years. When he died, his body turned into the sky, the sun, and the moon. Another story tells about a goddess who made people from mud. She made rich people from yellow clay and poor people from mud on a rope. There are also stories about dragons. In old Chinese stories, dragons were good and strong. They had a snake body and a horse head. A dragon could fly without wings. Later, some stories said dragons were bad. Chinese mythology also has stories about gods and people who lived forever. These stories are still told today.
Symbol\n\nA symbol is a picture, shape, or thing that stands for something else. Letters are symbols for sounds and words. A heart shape is a symbol for love. A flag is a symbol for a country. A stop sign is a symbol that tells cars to stop. People use symbols every day to share ideas without using many words.
Cardiff\n\nCardiff is the biggest city in Wales and the capital. It is in the United Kingdom. Many people live there. Cardiff has a big castle that was built a long time ago. There is a big stadium where people play sports and have concerts. Three rivers flow through the city. You can take a bus or a train to get around. Cardiff also has an airport where planes take off and land.
Equatorial Guinea\n\nEquatorial Guinea is a small country in Africa. It is next to Cameroon and Gabon, and near the ocean. Part of the country is on the mainland, and part is on islands. The capital city is called Ciudad de la Paz, and it is on an island called Bioko. A long time ago, Spain ruled this country, so many people there speak Spanish. The country is split into eight parts called provinces.
Beauty\n\nBeauty is when something is nice to look at, hear, feel, taste, smell, or think about. A person can be beautiful too. Beauty is also a feeling that is hard to describe. Different people think different things are beautiful. Some people think a pretty flower is beautiful. Some people think a song is beautiful. No one knows for sure if only people can feel beauty.
Botany\n\nBotany is the study of plants. It is a kind of science. People who study botany are called botanists. They learn how plants grow, eat, and make seeds. Botany helps us know why trees are big and flowers are pretty.
Cape Verde\n\nCape Verde is a country made of islands in the Atlantic Ocean, near the west coast of Africa. The islands are from volcanoes. The sun shines almost every day, and the weather is warm. There are two seasons: a windy season and a rainy season. Many birds and reptiles live only on these islands. People grow coffee, bananas, and corn. A popular food is a stew called cachupa. The capital city is Praia. People speak Portuguese. Cape Verde used to belong to Portugal, but it became its own country in 1975.
Food group\n\nA food group is a bunch of foods that are alike. People who help us eat healthy put foods into groups. For example, milk, cheese, and yogurt are in the dairy group. Some people say kids should have some dairy every day. But grown-ups might not need it. Different countries have different food groups. In Canada, there are four main food groups. All other foods are called "another."
Zebra\n\nA zebra is a horse that lives in Africa. It has black and white stripes all over its body. No two zebras have the same stripes. Zebras have short fur because they live in hot places. They eat grass and stay near water. Zebras live in big groups called herds. They like to be together and sometimes clean each other. A baby zebra is called a foal. Zebras are in danger of disappearing.
Plain\n\nA plain is a big, flat piece of land with no hills or mountains. The ground is smooth and easy to walk on. Farmers like plains because they can grow food there.
Old World monkey\n\nOld World monkeys are animals that live in Africa and Asia. They have tails, but their tails cannot grab things like some other monkeys' tails can. Some Old World monkeys are baboons and macaques. They can be small or big. The smallest is the talapoin, and the biggest is the mandrill. Most of them live in groups. Girl monkeys stay with their mothers for their whole lives. Boy monkeys leave the group when they grow up. They live in many different places, like forests, grasslands, and mountains.
Zagros Mountains\n\nThe Zagros Mountains are a very long line of big, tall mountains. They are in Iran and Iraq, and also a little bit in Turkey. The mountains go all the way from near a big lake in Turkey down to the Persian Gulf. Some of the mountains are so high that snow stays on top all year. There is oil deep under these mountains.
Land\n\nLand is the dry part of Earth that is not covered by water. About 29 out of every 100 parts of Earth are land. The rest is water. Land can be covered with dirt, sand, rocks, or grass. Some land has forests with many trees. Some land is used for farms where people grow food or keep animals. Cities and towns are built on land too. The biggest pieces of land are called continents. Smaller pieces of land with water all around are called islands. Land can change over a very long time. When big pieces of rock under the ground push together, they can make mountains. Volcanoes can make new islands. Some land wears away and sinks into the ocean.
Beirut\n\nBeirut is a big city by the sea. It is the capital of Lebanon. The city sits on a hill next to the blue Mediterranean Sea. To the east, there are tall mountains with snow on top. People have lived in Beirut for a very long time. It is a rich city with many banks and newspapers. Some people call it the Paris of the Middle East because it is so pretty and busy.
Voting\n\nVoting is when people say what they want to decide something. It can be for picking a leader or making a rule. People vote in small groups, like friends choosing a game, or in big groups, like a country picking a president. After everyone votes, the votes are counted. The side with the most votes wins. In some votes, each person gets one choice. In other votes, people can rank their top picks. Voting is how people in a democracy make choices together.
Cutlery\n\nCutlery is the name for tools we use to eat food. The most common cutlery is a knife, a spoon, and a fork. Some cutlery is made of shiny metal like silver or steel. Some cutlery is made of plastic and can be thrown away after one use. People use different cutlery for different foods. For example, you use a spoon for soup and a fork for noodles. In some countries, people eat with chopsticks instead of a knife and fork.
Soy milk\n\nSoy milk is a drink that looks like milk but is made from soybeans. Soybeans are small beans that grow in pods. People grind the beans with water to make soy milk. It comes from China, where soybeans first grew. Later, people in Japan also started making it. You can drink soy milk cold or warm. Some people drink it because they cannot drink cow's milk.
Ghana\n\nGhana is a country in West Africa. It is very warm there because it is near the middle of the Earth. Many people live in Ghana, and the biggest city is called Accra. Ghana has a big lake called Lake Volta. People in Ghana grow cocoa to make chocolate. They also find gold and diamonds in the ground. Football is the most popular game to play and watch. The national football team is called the Black Stars. Ghana has two seasons: a rainy season and a dry season.
Moth\n\nA moth is an insect with wings, just like a butterfly. Most moths come out at night. They have little feathery feelers on their heads. When they rest, their wings lie flat on their back. Many moths are very small. Some moths are pests because their babies, called caterpillars, eat farmers' plants. Other moth caterpillars eat wool clothes and blankets. People farm some moths, like the silkworm, to get silk for making soft cloth. Moths fly toward bright lights at night. They help flowers that open at night by carrying pollen from one flower to another. Bats and some birds eat moths. Some moths make sounds to trick bats.
Philippine Sea\n\nThe Philippine Sea is a big body of salt water. It is east of the Philippines and Taiwan. This sea is part of the big Pacific Ocean. It sits on a big piece of the earth's crust called the Philippine Plate.
North America\n\nNorth America is a very big piece of land on Earth. It is between two big oceans: the Pacific Ocean and the Atlantic Ocean. The Arctic Ocean is to the north. North America has many countries, like the United States, Canada, and Mexico. It also has warm islands like the Bahamas. A long time ago, North America was connected to other lands by bridges of land. Now it is connected to South America. Many people live in North America.
Mammoth\n\nA mammoth is a big animal that lived long ago, like an elephant with long, curved tusks. Mammoths had thick, shaggy hair to keep them warm in cold places. They lived in Africa, Europe, Asia, and North America. Some mammoths lived until about 4,000 years ago. Early people hunted mammoths for food. Mammoths are gone now, but we find their bones and tusks in the ground.
Cabbage\n\nCabbage is a plant that you can eat. It looks like a big round ball made of many leaves. Cabbage is green or sometimes red. People eat cabbage in many ways. They can put it in salads or make it into coleslaw. Some people make sauerkraut or kimchi with cabbage. Cabbage tastes a little bit like broccoli or cauliflower. You can find cabbage in the grocery store.
Decomposition\n\nDecomposition is what happens to plants and animals when they die. They slowly break down and turn back into dirt. Tiny living things like bacteria and fungi eat the dead plants and animals. That is how they get food and energy. Sometimes little bugs called maggots help eat the dead body. After a long time, everything that was once alive becomes part of the soil again.
Galley\n\nA galley is a kind of ship that people move by rowing with long sticks called oars. Long ago, people in Egypt and Greece used galleys for fighting and trading. Some galleys had two or three rows of oars on each side, stacked on top of each other. War galleys had long, skinny bodies and a sharp point at the front to hit other ships. Merchant ships were wider and used sails more. The Vikings had small galleys called longships that could hold about 50 or 60 people. Later, ships with only sails became more common, but galleys were still used in battles until about 500 years ago.
Cherry\n\nA cherry is a small fruit that grows on a tree or a bush. It is red and has a little seed inside. Cherries taste a bit sour. People put them in cakes, ice cream, and pies. They are good for you because they have vitamins. Many cherries come from Turkey, the United States, and Iran.
Reggae\n\nReggae is a kind of music that comes from a place called Jamaica. It started a long time ago, in the 1960s. Reggae music has a special beat that makes you want to move. The guitar plays a sound called a "skank" on the off-beat. The drums hit on the second and fourth beat. Reggae bands also use a bass, a keyboard, and horns like trumpets and saxophones. Many reggae songs are about love, being happy, or helping people. Bob Marley is the most famous reggae singer. Other singers are Peter Tosh, Jimmy Cliff, and Ziggy Marley. Reggae music became very popular in the 1970s.
Calendar\n\nA calendar is a tool that helps people keep track of days. It gives each day a name and a number, like a date. People use calendars to remember when something happened or to plan for something that will happen. The year and month are based on how the Sun and Moon move in the sky. Farmers use calendars to know when to plant their crops. There are many kinds of calendars, like the one most people use today called the Gregorian calendar.
Market\n\nA market is a place where people go to buy or sell things. Sellers set up stalls, like little tents, to show what they have. Some markets are inside a building, and some are outside in an open space. After the day is done, the sellers take their stalls down. The word "market" can also mean how many people want to buy something. For example, if lots of people want to buy toys, we say there is a big market for toys.
Iris (plant)\n\nAn iris is a flower that grows in many colors like purple, yellow, white, and blue. Its name comes from a word that means rainbow. Irises are easy to grow and can stay outside all winter. They have three big petals that hang down and three petals that stand up. Some irises have soft hairs in the middle, like a little beard. Butterflies and hummingbirds like to visit irises. People also pick irises to put in vases because they are pretty.
Rhyme\n\nRhyme is when words sound the same at the end. Poems and songs often use rhyme. Nursery rhymes are fun to say because they rhyme. For example, 'cat' and 'hat' rhyme. Some rhymes are not exact, like 'bone' and 'home'. Dr. Seuss books have many funny rhymes.
Chair\n\nA chair is something you sit on. It can be made of wood, plastic, metal, or fabric. Some chairs have arms to rest your elbows. A rocking chair moves back and forth. A bean bag chair is soft and squishy. A sofa is a long chair for more than one person. Chairs are in homes, schools, and cars.
Lake Titicaca\n\nLake Titicaca is a very big, deep lake high up in the Andes mountains. Part of it is in Peru and part is in Bolivia. It is the biggest lake in South America. Many boats use this lake to carry things from one place to another. The lake has 41 islands. Some islands have people living on them. The Uros people make floating islands out of thick reeds that grow in the lake. They build houses and watchtowers on these reed islands. Another island called Amantani has two mountain peaks with old ruins on top. People there grow wheat, potatoes, and vegetables. Taquile island is famous for weaving and knitting. Isla del Sol has many old ruins from the Inca people. The lake is home to many water animals, like the big Titicaca water frog and a bird that cannot fly. The water level has been going down because of less rain and melting ice. People are trying to keep the lake clean and safe for the animals.
Easter\n\nEaster is a special day in spring. Some people celebrate it because they believe Jesus came back to life after he died. Other people celebrate it as a fun spring holiday. On Easter, many children get baskets with candy. They also decorate eggs with pretty colors and hide them for the Easter Bunny to find. People wear new clothes and go to church. Families sometimes take trips to see each other or go to the beach. Easter happens in March or April, but not on the same day every year.
Mobile device\n\nA mobile device is a small machine you can carry with you. It works without being plugged into a wall because it has a battery inside. A phone is a mobile device. A tablet is also a mobile device. You can use it to play games, listen to music, and look at pictures. It can connect to the internet without wires. You can take it anywhere you go.
Climate change\n\nClimate change is when the weather on Earth changes over a very long time. The Earth can get hotter or colder. Right now, the Earth is getting hotter because people are doing things that make the air warm up. When we burn things like gas and coal, it puts bad stuff into the air. This makes the Earth warmer. When the Earth gets warmer, the ice at the North and South Poles melts, and the water in the ocean rises. It can also make storms stronger. A long time ago, before there were people, the Earth was sometimes very hot and sometimes very cold. There were ice ages when a lot of the Earth was covered in ice. The Sun also changes a little bit every 11 years, but that is not why the Earth is getting hot now. People can use clean energy from the sun, wind, and water to help stop the Earth from getting too hot.
Hagfish\n\nA hagfish is a long, slimy sea animal that looks like an eel but is not an eel. It has no bones, only a skull made of hard rubbery stuff. Hagfish live at the bottom of the ocean. They have small eyes that do not work well, so they use their nose and whiskers to find food. They eat dead fish and worms. When a hagfish is scared, it makes a lot of slime from its sides. The slime puffs up big in the water. Some people in Korea eat hagfish. People also use hagfish skin to make wallets and belts. Scientists are studying hagfish slime to make new things.
Priest\n\nA priest is a person who works in a church and helps people learn about God. Priests lead prayers and teach about being good. Some priests are in charge of a church and the people who go there. To become a priest, you have to study a lot. In some churches, priests cannot get married. In other churches, they can. Some churches let women be priests, and some do not. There are also priests in other religions, like Buddhism and Shinto in Japan.
Cambodia\n\nCambodia is a country in Southeast Asia, near Vietnam, Laos, and Thailand. About 13 million people live there. The people are called Cambodians or Khmer, and they speak Khmer. Long ago, Cambodia had a big empire called Angkor. A famous temple from that time is Angkor Wat, which is the biggest religious building in the world. Most people in Cambodia follow Buddhism. The country has a big river called the Mekong that runs through the middle. People eat rice, noodles, and soup for breakfast. They celebrate New Year in April. The flag has a picture of Angkor Wat on it. People use boats, cars, motorcycles, and even elephants to get around.
Wales\n\nWales is a country that is part of the United Kingdom. It is west of England and next to the Irish Sea. The people who live in Wales are called the Welsh. They have their own language, called Welsh, and many children learn it in school. Most people in Wales also speak English. The capital city is Cardiff, and it is the biggest city. Three million people live in Wales. Wales has high mountains, like Snowdon, which is the tallest. There are also three national parks with beautiful nature. Welsh people are proud of their country. They have a special festival called Eisteddfod where they sing and share stories. Rugby is a very popular sport in Wales. The national flowers are the leek and the daffodil.
Shaving\n\nShaving is cutting hair off your face or body with a special tool called a razor. Men often shave the hair on their face. Some men cut their face hair short, and some take it all off. A man who does not shave his chin has a goatee. A man who does not shave above his mouth has a mustache. Some men also shave all the hair off their head to be bald. In many armies, soldiers have to shave their heads.
Geological history of Earth\n\nThe geological history of Earth is the story of how our planet changed from the very beginning until now. A long, long time ago, Earth was very hot and had no plants or animals. Over millions of years, the ground cooled down and became hard rock. Scientists look at rocks and layers of dirt to learn about what happened long ago. They give different names to different times, like when dinosaurs lived or when big ice covered the land.
Sardinia\n\nSardinia is a big island in the middle of the sea. It is the second biggest island in the Mediterranean Sea. Sardinia is part of Italy, and the biggest city there is called Cagliari. The island has mountains, valleys, and rivers. The highest mountain is Punta La Marmora. There are also many small islands around Sardinia. People in Sardinia speak Italian and also a special language called Sardinian.
International Space Station\n\nThe International Space Station is a big home in space where people can live for many months. It was built by many countries working together, including the United States, Russia, Europe, Japan, and Canada. The first part went up in 1998, and people have lived there since the year 2000. The station goes around the Earth very fast, so the sun rises and sets 16 times every day. Astronauts sleep in sleeping bags stuck to the wall so they do not float away. There is no gravity in space, so everything floats. Astronauts have to exercise every day to keep their legs strong. They eat food from pouches and drink water from bags. They clean themselves with wet cloths because water floats around. The toilet uses air to suck away waste instead of water.
Empathy\n\nEmpathy is when you can feel what another person feels. If your friend is sad, you feel sad too. If your friend is happy, you feel happy too. Empathy helps you be kind and help others. Most people have empathy. Some people have trouble feeling what others feel.
Allosaurus\n\nAllosaurus was a big dinosaur that ate meat. It lived a long, long time ago, in a time called the Jurassic. It walked on two strong back legs and had two smaller arms with three fingers and sharp claws. Its tail was long and heavy, and it helped the dinosaur balance. Allosaurus had a big head with lots of sharp teeth. It was one of the biggest meat-eating dinosaurs of its time. Allosaurus probably hunted other dinosaurs like Stegosaurus and Apatosaurus. Some scientists think Allosaurus may have hunted in groups, like a pack of wolves. Others think they fought each other. Many Allosaurus bones have been found in a place in Utah called the Cleveland-Lloyd Dinosaur Quarry. That is why we know a lot about this dinosaur. Allosaurus is the state fossil of Utah.
Symbiosis\n\nSymbiosis is when two different kinds of living things live together for a long time. Sometimes both are helped, and sometimes one is helped and the other is hurt. For example, a flower and a bee help each other. The bee gets food, and the flower gets its seeds spread. Some tiny living things live inside bigger ones, like the helpers in your tummy that help you digest food. Almost every plant and animal has these helpers. A long time ago, even the tiny parts inside your cells used to be separate living things that started living together.
Stockholm\n\nStockholm is the biggest city in Sweden and the capital. It is built on many islands with water all around. There are 14 islands and 57 bridges. The old part of the city is called Gamla Stan, which means "Old Town." There is a big park on an island called Djurgården, where you can see animals at Skansen zoo. Stockholm is sometimes called the "Venice of the North" because of all the water.
Arcade game\n\nAn arcade game is a fun machine that you play with coins. You can find arcade games in places like restaurants and game rooms. Some arcade games are pinball tables where you hit a ball with flippers. Other arcade games are video games on big screens. People put a coin in the machine to start playing.
Cave\n\nA cave is a big hole under the ground. It is dark and cool inside. Caves are made when water wears away soft rock over a very long time. Some caves have long, skinny tunnels and big rooms. Water dripping in caves can make pointy rocks that look like icicles. Some caves have pretty paintings on the walls from long ago. Many animals live in caves, like bats, mice, and spiders. Bats like to hang upside down from the ceiling. People sometimes explore caves for fun. They wear helmets with lights so they can see in the dark.
Venom\n\nVenom is a special poison that some animals make inside their bodies. They use it to hurt other animals. A snake can bite and put venom into another animal. A bee can sting and put venom into you. Some animals use venom to catch food to eat. Other animals use venom to protect themselves from danger. Venom is not the same for every animal.
Magnetic field\n\nA magnetic field is the space around a magnet where the magnet can pull or push things. You cannot see it, but you can feel it when a magnet sticks to your fridge. The field has lines that go from one end of the magnet to the other. If you put tiny iron pieces near a magnet, they line up along these lines. The closer the lines are, the stronger the magnet. Magnets always have two ends: a north end and a south end. Opposite ends pull together, and same ends push apart.
Amplifier\n\nAn amplifier is a thing that makes sound louder. It is used with electric guitars, radios, and TVs. The amplifier takes a small sound and makes it big so you can hear it. It needs electricity or a battery to work. The big sound goes to a speaker. Some amplifiers use old glass tubes, and some use new parts called transistors. Tube amplifiers are heavy and get hot. Transistor amplifiers are lighter and cheaper. If an amplifier tries to make sound too loud, the sound gets scratchy. That is called distortion. Some people like the scratchy sound from tubes.
Calgary\n\nCalgary is a big city in Canada, in a place called Alberta. It is near the Rocky Mountains, which are very tall. Many people live in Calgary. The city has tall buildings called skyscrapers because there are many oil and gas businesses. Around Calgary there are farms with cows. In the winter, it is cold and dry, but sometimes a warm wind called a chinook blows through and makes it less cold. In the summer, it is warm and rainy. Every year, Calgary has a big party called the Calgary Stampede. There are rides, a festival, and cowboys race with horses and carts. In 1988, the Winter Olympics were held in Calgary. The city also has museums and an ice hockey team called the Calgary Flames.
Moulting\n\nMoulting is when an animal gets rid of its old skin, fur, feathers, or shell. It happens at certain times of the year or as the animal grows. Birds lose old feathers and grow new ones. Dogs and other furry animals shed their old hair. Snakes and lizards crawl out of their old skin. Bugs and crabs grow a new hard shell after they shed the old one. The new covering is soft at first but gets hard later.
Tango\n\nTango is a dance that people do with a partner. It was first made in Buenos Aires, a big city in Argentina. The music for this dance is also called tango. Today, there are two main ways to dance tango. One way is called Argentine tango, and it is very old. The other way is called international tango, and it is danced in contests all over the world. Both ways are fun and special.
Patent\n\nA patent is a special paper from the government that says an inventor made something new. It stops other people from making or using that thing without asking. The inventor can sell the patent to someone else. A patent lasts for up to 20 years. After that, anyone can copy the invention. To get a patent, the inventor must write down how the invention works and send it to the government. The government checks if the idea is really new. If it is, the government gives the inventor a patent. The inventor must pay money to get and keep the patent. The patent owner can let other people use the invention if they pay money. Patents cover many things like toys, medicines, and machines.
Patagonia\n\nPatagonia is a place at the bottom of South America. Two countries, Argentina and Chile, share this land. It has big mountains called the Andes and very pretty views. The name Patagonia comes from a word used long ago for the people who lived there. Those people were very tall. Many animals live in Patagonia. You can find guanacos, cougars, and foxes on the plains. In the water, there are whales, penguins, and orcas. Some parts of Patagonia are special nature places that people keep safe.
Sea of Okhotsk\n\nThe Sea of Okhotsk is a big body of water next to the Pacific Ocean. It is near Russia and Japan. In winter, the water gets very cold and big pieces of ice make it hard for boats to travel. Some islands in this sea have no people living on them. Seals, sea lions, and seabirds like to live there and have their babies.
Triangle\n\nA triangle is a shape with three straight sides and three corners. The three sides are all straight lines. The three corners are called vertices. If you add up the three angles inside a triangle, they always make 180. That is like a half turn. A triangle is the shape with the fewest sides of any shape with straight sides. Some triangles have two sides that are the same length. Some triangles have all three sides the same length. Some triangles have one square corner. Computers use many small triangles to draw pictures on a screen. You can find the area of a triangle by multiplying the bottom side by the height and then taking half.
Cube\n\nA cube is a shape that looks like a box. It has six flat sides, and all sides are the same size. Each side is a square. A cube has 8 corners, 12 edges, and 6 faces. A dice is a cube. You can hold a cube in your hand. It is not flat like a square; it is a 3D shape.
Tortoise\n\nA tortoise is a reptile that lives on land. It has a hard shell on its back to keep it safe. Most tortoises are small, but some that live on islands can be very big. The tortoises on the Galapagos islands are famous for being large. Tortoises move very slowly. Their shells take a very long time to break down after they die.
Capital (economics)\n\nCapital is something people use to make things or start a business. It can be money, tools, or machines. For example, a baker uses an oven to bake bread. The oven is capital. People also use capital to build houses or make toys. Without capital, it is hard to make new things.
Amman\n\nAmman is a big city and the capital of a country called Jordan. It is the largest city in that country and many people live there. Amman sits on 20 hills in the middle of Jordan. It is a very old city, one of the oldest in the world. People have lived there for thousands of years. Today, Amman is a busy place where people go for work, school, and to see doctors. Many visitors from other countries come to Amman. The city has a special day on March 2 called "city of Amman day" to celebrate.
Sunbird\n\nA sunbird is a small bird with a long, curved beak. Many sunbirds have bright, shiny feathers, especially the boy birds. They live in warm places near the middle of the world. Sunbirds like to drink sweet water from flowers. They also eat little bugs and spiders. Some sunbirds can flap their wings very fast and stay in one spot in the air, like a hummingbird. But most of the time, they sit on a branch to eat.
Instinct\n\nAn instinct is something animals are born knowing how to do. They do not learn it. A baby sea turtle hatches on the beach and walks to the ocean all by itself. A baby kangaroo climbs into its mother's pouch right after it is born. Birds know how to build nests without anyone teaching them. Some instincts are like reflexes, like when a baby roots for milk. Animals follow their instincts without thinking about it.
Keyboard instrument\n\nA keyboard instrument is something you play by pressing keys. The keys are usually white and black. When you press a key, it makes a sound. Some keyboard instruments are very old, like the harpsichord. Others are new and use electricity, like the synthesizer. People call an electronic keyboard just a "keyboard." You can play many different sounds on it. Some keyboards can even play drum sounds and help you make songs. Many people use keyboards to play music alone or in a band.
Tower Bridge\n\nTower Bridge is a bridge in London that can open up to let big boats pass. It goes over the River Thames. The bridge has two tall towers and a walkway high up. When a tall ship comes, the middle part of the bridge lifts up like a seesaw. This happens about 900 times each year. Many people visit London to see Tower Bridge. You can go inside the walkway and look out over the city. The bridge was built a long time ago, in 1894. It is made of steel and covered with stone. The bridge used steam engines to lift, but now it uses oil and electricity.
Moat\n\nA moat is a deep, wide ditch filled with water around a castle. It helped keep enemies out. Enemies could not swim across easily, and they could not dig under the castle walls. Moats also stopped fires from reaching the castle. Some moats were dry and had no water. In stories, moats have alligators, but that is not true. Sometimes people put fish in moats for food.
Musical instrument\n\nA musical instrument is something people use to make music. You can blow into it, hit it, or shake it to make sounds. Some instruments have strings you pluck or rub. A big group of instruments playing together is called an orchestra. Your own voice can also make music when you sing, and that does not need any instrument at all.
Thunderstorm\n\nA thunderstorm is a big storm with strong wind, heavy rain, lightning, and loud thunder. Thunderstorms happen when warm, wet air near the ground rises up fast into the sky. The air turns into big, tall clouds that can look like a mushroom. Lightning is a big flash of light that jumps between clouds or from a cloud to the ground. Thunder is the loud boom that comes after lightning, because light travels faster than sound. Thunderstorms can be dangerous. They can bring very strong winds, big hail that is like hard ice balls, and too much rain that causes floods. Lightning can start fires and hurt people. But thunderstorms also help us. They give water to plants and animals, cool down hot days, and clean the air. Lightning even helps make food for plants. After a thunderstorm, you might see a rainbow in the sky.
Arabian horse\n\nThe Arabian horse is a special kind of horse that is very old and comes from the desert. It has a triangle-shaped head, big eyes, large nostrils, and a small nose. Its tail is held up high. Arabian horses are very fast and can run for a long time without getting tired. They are also very friendly and learn to love people easily. Long ago, people called Bedouins lived in the desert and kept these horses close, even inside their tents. Today, Arabian horses live all over the world. They can be many colors like bay, gray, chestnut, black, white, or brown. They are used for racing, shows, and riding for fun. Some famous people like George Washington and Napoleon had Arabian horses.
Hill\n\nA hill is a big bump of land that goes up high. It is not as tall as a mountain. Hills are not very steep, so you can walk up them. Some hills are covered with grass and trees. Long ago, people built forts on top of hills to stay safe.
Textile arts\n\nTextile arts are crafts where people use threads or fibers to make things like clothes, blankets, or pretty decorations. People have been doing this for a very long time, even since the first cities were built. Long ago, special colors and fabrics were very expensive, so only rich people could wear them. People traded these fabrics across countries on roads like the Silk Road. Later, machines were invented to make cloth faster, but some workers were sad because they lost their jobs.
Accordion\n\nAn accordion is a musical instrument that you can hold in your hands. It has keys like a piano or buttons to press. When you push and pull the middle part, called bellows, air goes through and makes sounds. The accordion was first made a long time ago in Germany and Austria. People play it in many kinds of music.
Cumulus cloud\n\nCumulus clouds are big white clouds that look like cauliflower. They have flat bottoms and bumpy tops that keep changing shape. When you see a cumulus cloud, it means the air is moving up and down. If a cumulus cloud grows very tall, it can turn into a storm cloud called a cumulonimbus.
Archive\n\nAn archive is a place where old papers, pictures, and other things are kept safe for a long time. These things are special because they are the only ones like them. People called archivists take care of the archive. They make sure the old things do not get lost or broken. Big groups like companies and governments have archives too. An archive is different from a library because the things in an archive are not books you can buy in a store.
Compass\n\nA compass is a tool that helps you find your way. It has a little arrow that always points to the north. When you hold a compass, you can see which way is north, south, east, and west. This helps you know where to go, even in a big forest or on a wide ocean. A long time ago, people in China made the first compass out of a special rock that could point north.
Baltic Sea\n\nThe Baltic Sea is a big body of water in northern Europe. It sits between countries like Sweden, Finland, Russia, Poland, and Germany. Many rivers from nearby lands flow into this sea. The Baltic Sea is only connected to the big ocean by narrow, shallow waterways. Because of that, the water has very little salt. In winter, the northern part of the sea freezes into ice. The ice is so thick that cars can drive on it. Every winter, people make roads on the ice between islands near Sweden and Finland. For thousands of years, the Baltic Sea has helped people travel and trade between the countries around it. That is why those countries share many of the same customs and ways of life.
Swamp\n\nA swamp is a wet, muddy place on land. It is like a forest that is covered with water. Many trees and water plants grow there. Birds and other animals make their homes and raise their babies in swamps. The water in a swamp can be fresh or salty. Swamps help keep the ground clean and stop floods. Some swamps are very big and are found near big rivers like the Amazon.
European honey bee\n\nThe European honey bee is a small bug that makes honey. It lives in a hive with many other bees. The bees work together to find food. When a bee finds sweet juice from flowers, it flies back to the hive and does a special dance to show the other bees where the food is. The bees use the sweet juice to make honey, which people like to eat.
Port-au-Prince\n\nPort-au-Prince is a big city and the capital of Haiti. It is the largest city in Haiti, and many people live there. The city has a big port where ships bring things like coffee and sugar to other countries. There is also an airport near the city. In 2010, a very strong earthquake hurt the city and many people died. The city is still fixing the broken buildings.
Submarine\n\nA submarine is a boat that can go underwater. Big submarines are used by the army. Small ones help scientists look at fish and rocks under the sea. Some people buy their own submarine to explore. Early submarines were moved by hand because engines were not invented yet. They were used in wars to try to sink enemy ships. Later, submarines used a diesel engine to make electricity and fill a battery. The battery let the submarine move underwater. Today, many big submarines use a special power called nuclear. This lets them stay underwater for a very long time. Submarines can shoot torpedoes or big missiles. Some submarines are small and fast. Others are big and slow.
Spear\n\nA spear is a long stick with a sharp point at one end. Long ago, people used spears for hunting animals and for fighting. You can hold a spear in your hand and stab with it. Some spears are light and can be thrown far. A special kind of spear called a lance was used by knights riding horses. Another kind called a pike was very long and used to stop horses in battle.
Alexandria\n\nAlexandria is a big city in Egypt. It sits next to the Mediterranean Sea. Many people live there. Long ago, a man named Alexander the Great started this city. It had a huge library with many books. Some smart people lived there and studied. Ships carried food from Alexandria to Rome. Later, the city became smaller and less important.
Canning\n\nCanning is a way to keep food good for a long time. People put food into a jar or can and close it tight so no air can get in. This makes the food last for a year or even longer. Some canned food can stay safe to eat for 30 years. Long ago, people used glass jars for canning, but they were heavy and broke easily. Later, people started using metal cans, which are cheaper and do not break. To open the first cans, people had to hit them with rocks or cut them with knives because can openers were not invented yet. Today, we use can openers to open cans. Some foods, like fruits and pickles, can be canned with just boiling water. Other foods, like meat and vegetables, need to be heated very hot in a special pot to kill tiny germs that can make you sick.
Impact crater\n\nAn impact crater is a big hole in the ground made when a rock from space, called a meteorite, hits the Earth. The rock comes very fast and smashes into the ground, making a round dent. Some craters are very big, but many get worn away by rain and wind over a long time. The Moon has many craters because there is no wind or rain to erase them.
Machu Picchu\n\nMachu Picchu is a very old city high up in the mountains of Peru, in South America. The Incas built it a long time ago, between 1200 and 1450. They cut the mountain rock to make flat places for houses, fields, and temples. They also made places to look at the stars. When the Spanish came, the Incas left the city. No one knows exactly why. The Spanish never found Machu Picchu. It is very hard to get to because it is so high. There is only one way in and a stone wall to protect it. Most people did not know about it until 1911, when a man named Hiram Bingham found it again. Today, people can visit by road, by walking the Inca Trail, or by train. Machu Picchu has more than 150 buildings and over 100 staircases. In the Quechua language, its name means "Old Mountain."
Jainism\n\nJainism is a religion that started a long time ago in India. It teaches that every living thing has a soul. The soul can learn and grow. People who follow Jainism try to be kind to all animals and bugs. They do not hurt any living thing. They also try not to want too many things or be too proud. Some people in this religion are called monks and nuns. They wear simple clothes and walk very carefully so they do not step on tiny bugs.
Jet aircraft\n\nA jet aircraft is a flying machine that uses a special engine called a jet engine. This engine pushes the plane very fast through the air. Jet aircraft fly very high in the sky, much higher than planes with propellers. They can fly for a long time without stopping. You can see jet aircraft in the sky, and they make a loud roaring sound.
Mechanics\n\nMechanics is about how things move. It looks at what makes a toy car roll or a ball fly through the air. A long time ago, a man named Aristotle watched things move. Later, other smart people like Galileo and Newton learned more about moving things. Newton said three important rules about how things move. Mechanics also studies big things like planets and small things like tiny bits of matter.
Leopard\n\nA leopard is a big cat with spots on its fur. It lives in Africa and Asia. Leopards have tan fur with dark spots called rosettes. Some leopards are all black; these are called black panthers. Leopards are very good at climbing trees. They often carry their food up a tree to keep it safe from other animals like lions and hyenas. Leopards like to be alone, unlike lions that live in groups. They hunt at night or in the afternoon. They hide and then jump out to catch their prey. Leopards eat many kinds of animals, like gazelles, birds, and even monkeys. They do not usually eat people, but a sick or hungry leopard might.
Professional wrestling\n\nProfessional wrestling is a show where people pretend to fight. It is like a play, not a real sport. The wrestlers train very hard to do their moves safely. They wrestle inside a ring with ropes around it. The best wrestlers win special belts called championship titles. Some famous wrestlers are Hulk Hogan, The Rock, and John Cena. You can watch professional wrestling on TV or at a big building called an arena. Every year, there is a very big wrestling show called WrestleMania.
Space station\n\nA space station is a big home in the sky that people can live in. It goes around the Earth very high up. Spaceships can visit it to bring food, toys, and new people. The biggest space station right now is called the International Space Station. People live there for many weeks or months. They do science experiments and learn how to stay healthy in space. The first space station was called Salyut 1. Other space stations were Skylab and Mir. Someday there will be a new Chinese space station.
Xylophone\n\nA xylophone is a musical instrument that you hit with a special stick called a mallet. It has wooden bars that are different lengths. When you hit the bars, they make different sounds. The bars are lined up like the keys on a piano. Under the bars there are long tubes that make the sound last longer. The xylophone comes from Africa and Asia. People play it in orchestras. The sound is short and fast, so it is good for quick tunes. Some xylophones have softer sounds and more bars; those are called marimbas. Players usually use two mallets, but very good players can use four.
Alps\n\nThe Alps are a big group of very tall mountains in Europe. They stretch across many countries, like France, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Austria, and Slovenia. The highest mountain in the Alps is called Mont Blanc. It is so high that snow stays on top all year. People love to visit the Alps. In winter, they go skiing and snowboarding. In summer, they hike and ride bikes on the trails. Many animals live in the Alps, like ibex, chamois, and marmots. The mountains have pretty lakes and green meadows with flowers. Some parts of the Alps have forests with trees like pine and spruce. The weather gets colder as you go higher up the mountain.
Bog\n\nA bog is a wet, spongy place on the ground. It is like a big, soft, muddy field. Bogs are made of old dead plants that pile up very slowly. The water in a bog is not clean like a lake; it is brown and sour. Special moss called Sphagnum grows there. The ground is so wet that old plants do not rot away fast. They stay and turn into a dark, soft material called peat. Bogs are home to special plants and animals that like wet, sour places. The biggest bog in the world is in Africa, and it is as big as a whole country.
Property\n\nProperty is something that belongs to someone. If you buy a toy, that toy is your property. People also call houses and apartments property. Even a story or a song you make can be your property.
Porcelain\n\nPorcelain is a special kind of cup and plate material. It is made from a white clay called kaolin. People heat the clay very hot in a big oven called a kiln. Porcelain is hard and smooth. It can be white or painted with pretty colors. Long ago, people in China first made porcelain. They sent it to other countries. Later, people in Europe learned how to make it too. Some porcelain is so thin you can see light through it. People use porcelain for cups, plates, and little statues.
Village\n\nA village is a small place where people live, usually in the countryside. It is bigger than a tiny hamlet but smaller than a town or city. The houses in a village are close together, not far apart. Long ago, most people lived in villages. They grew their own food and lived near each other. Many villages have a church. Some villages grow bigger and become towns or cities. In some places, a village is a kind of local government. In other places, it is just a name for a group of houses.
Accounting\n\nAccounting is a job where people write down how a business spends and gets money. People who do this job are called accountants. They write in special books called ledgers. Every time money comes in or goes out, they write it down. The ledgers show if the business made more money than it spent. Banks and other people look at these books to decide if they should give the business money. Accounting is very old. People have been doing it for thousands of years, since the time of ancient farms and cities.
Non-fiction\n\nNon-fiction is writing about real things. It tells you facts that are true. Books that teach you about animals, places, or how things work are non-fiction. Some non-fiction books have pictures and words. People write non-fiction to help you learn.
Sydney Opera House\n\nThe Sydney Opera House is a famous building in Australia. It sits next to the water in a place called Sydney Harbour. The building looks like big white sails on a boat. Many people go there to watch shows and listen to music. Every year, there are many concerts and plays inside. The Opera House is a special place that people from all over the world come to see.
Syphon\n\nA syphon is a tube shaped like an upside-down U. It moves water from one place to another without a pump. The water goes up the tube and then down, like going over a little hill. This works because gravity pulls the water down on the other side. People use syphons to water plants in gardens.
Brain\n\nThe brain is the part of your body that helps you think. It tells the rest of your body what to do. Almost all animals have a brain. The brain is made of special cells called nerves. These nerves talk to each other and to other parts of your body. Your brain gets information from your eyes, ears, nose, tongue, and skin. It uses that information to help you see, hear, smell, taste, and feel things. Your brain also tells your muscles to move and your heart to beat. The brain is protected by the hard bones of your skull. It has three main parts: the cerebrum, the cerebellum, and the brainstem. The cerebrum is the biggest part and helps you think and learn. The cerebellum helps you keep your balance and move your muscles together. The brainstem controls things that happen without you thinking, like breathing and blinking. Your brain is very wrinkly, which gives it a big surface. It uses a lot of energy even though it is small.
Sanitation\n\nSanitation is about keeping things clean and safe. It means taking away poop and pee so people do not get sick. It also means throwing away trash and cleaning water. Long ago, sanitation just meant being healthy. Today, many places have toilets that flush away waste. Some toilets do not need water, like dry toilets. Good sanitation keeps germs away and helps everyone stay healthy.
Ross Sea\n\nThe Ross Sea is a big, cold part of the ocean near Antarctica. It is very far away and very cold. Big pieces of ice float in the water. In summer, tiny plants and animals called plankton grow in the water. Fish, seals, and whales eat the plankton. Penguins live on the ice near the Ross Sea. A very big squid was once caught there. The Ross Sea is one of the cleanest seas on Earth because not many people go there.
Lacrosse\n\nLacrosse is a game played by two teams with sticks that have a net on the end. The first people to play lacrosse were Native Americans. They used the game to solve arguments between groups. Now many people play lacrosse in North America. Each team has ten players. One player is the goalie, who stops the ball from going into the goal. The other players try to throw the ball into the other team's goal to score points. The team with the most points at the end wins. The game starts with a face-off, where two players try to get the ball first.
Minimalism\n\nMinimalism is a way of making art or music that uses simple ideas, sounds, or shapes. It became popular in America in the 1960s and 1970s. In music, a short tune or beat is repeated many times, and each time it changes just a little bit. Sometimes two people start playing together, but one goes a tiny bit faster, so they get out of step, and then later they come back together. This music can make you feel like you are in a dream. In art, minimalism uses simple shapes like stripes or squares. The artist Frank Stella painted stripes that were as wide as the wood behind the canvas. Minimalist art does not have a lot of extra stuff. It is simple and clean.
Global Positioning System\n\nThe Global Positioning System, or GPS, is a way to find where you are on Earth. It uses special machines in space called satellites. There are 31 satellites that go around the Earth. A GPS receiver, like the one in a phone or a car, talks to these satellites. It can tell you where you are, how fast you are going, and which way you are moving. Many cars have GPS to help find roads and places to eat. Boats use GPS to stay away from rocks and shallow water. Phones also have GPS to help you find your way. The satellites send signals that the receiver uses to figure out its spot. It needs at least four satellites to work well. GPS was first made for the military, but now everyone can use it.
Romanticism\n\nRomanticism is a way of making art, stories, and music that started a long time ago in Europe. People who liked Romanticism thought feelings and imagination were very important. They loved nature and old stories like fairy tales. They did not like big machines or factories. Some artists and writers from this time are still famous today.
History of North America\n\nThe history of North America is about the people who lived there long ago. The first people came to North America many, many years ago. They were called Native Americans. They lived in different groups, some small and some big. Some groups hunted animals like bison, and others grew food like corn, tomatoes, and squash. Later, people from Europe came on big ships. First came the Vikings, then Christopher Columbus in 1492. Then more people came from Spain, England, and France. They started towns and took land from the Native Americans. There were many wars between the countries. Later, the United States and Mexico became their own countries. People kept moving west, and more towns were built.
Iberian Peninsula\n\nThe Iberian Peninsula is a big piece of land in the southwest part of Europe. It is mostly surrounded by water. To the south and east is the Mediterranean Sea. To the north and west is the Atlantic Ocean. It is the third biggest peninsula in Europe. The name Iberia comes from a very old name used by the Greeks and Romans. Today, Spain is on this peninsula, but the whole piece of land is called Iberia.
Russian literature\n\nRussian literature is made of stories and poems written in the Russian language or by people from Russia. Some famous Russian writers are Leo Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, and Nikolai Gogol. They wrote long books about people, feelings, and adventures. Many people all over the world still read these stories today.
Chicken\n\nA chicken is a bird that people keep on farms. A male chicken is called a rooster, and a female chicken is called a hen. A baby chicken is called a chick. Hens lay eggs, and chicks hatch out of the eggs. People eat chicken eggs for breakfast. They can boil or fry the eggs. People also eat chicken meat. Chicken meat is not very expensive, so many people eat it. Chickens live in a little house called a coop. They sleep there at night. They also need a yard to run around and take dust baths. Farmers use fences to keep chickens safe from animals like foxes and hawks. Some chickens can fly a short distance. Some like to sleep in trees if there are trees nearby.
Archery\n\nArchery is a way to shoot arrows with a bow. A person who does archery is called an archer. Long ago, people used bows and arrows to hunt for food and to fight in battles. Today, archery is a sport where people try to hit a target far away. An archer pulls back the string on the bow and lets the arrow fly. It takes practice to aim well.
String instrument\n\nA string instrument is a thing that makes music when its strings shake. You can pull the strings with your fingers or rub them with a stick called a bow. A violin is a small string instrument. You play it with a bow made of horse hair. When you move the bow across the strings, the strings shake and make sound. You can change the sound by pushing your fingers down on the neck. A viola is like a violin but a little bigger. A cello is even bigger and you play it sitting down. A guitar is a string instrument you strum with your hand or a pick. You hold down strings on the neck to make different notes. People play guitars in rock bands. Some string instruments you pluck, like a banjo.
Boot\n\nA boot is a kind of shoe that covers your foot and goes up your leg. Boots are taller and bigger than regular shoes. Some boots go all the way up to your knee. They keep your feet warm and dry. Many boots have laces to tie them on tight. The bottom of a boot is thick and strong so you can walk on rocks or in mud. People wear boots when it rains, when it snows, or when they work outside.
Krill\n\nKrill are tiny animals that look like small shrimp. They live in all the oceans of the world. Krill are very small, only about as long as your finger. They swim together in huge groups called swarms. Krill eat tiny plants and animals in the water. Many big animals eat krill, like whales, seals, penguins, and fish. Krill can make their own light, like a firefly. They have special spots on their body that glow in the dark.
Convection\n\nConvection is how heat moves through air or water. When something is hot, it rises up. When something is cold, it sinks down. This makes the air or water move around. For example, warm air from a heater goes up to the ceiling. Cold air near the floor moves down. A fan pushes air around, which is another way to move heat. In a pot of water on the stove, the hot water at the bottom rises to the top, and the cool water at the top sinks down. This moving around is called a convection current. Wind outside is also made by warm air rising and cool air moving in to take its place.
Art\n\nArt is something people make to show their ideas or feelings. People who make art are called artists. Art can be a drawing, a painting, a song, a dance, or a story. Some art is a bowl or a pot that you can use. That kind is called a craft. Art can make you feel happy, sad, or excited. Long ago, people painted on cave walls. Today, people make art with paint, clay, or even computers. Art is all around you.
Competition (economics)\n\nCompetition is when two or more people or companies want the same thing, like selling toys. If one company sells more toys, the other sells fewer. Long ago, a man named Adam Smith said that when people try to get the most money, they work harder and make better things. Sometimes, only one company sells something, and that is called a monopoly. The government can also help or stop competition by giving money or making rules.
Reality television\n\nReality television is a kind of TV show that shows real people doing real things, not actors. The people are not pretending to be someone else. Some shows have people living in a house together, like "Big Brother." Other shows have people playing games or doing funny things. But sometimes the shows are not exactly real because the people are told what to do or the show is cut to look different.
Jacob\n\nJacob is a man from a very old story. He lived a long, long time ago. Jacob had a brother named Esau. Their mother was Rebecca and their father was Isaac. One day, Jacob made some red stew. Esau was very hungry and wanted some. Jacob said, "Give me your special family right, and I will give you stew." Esau said yes. Later, Jacob tricked his blind father into giving him a special blessing. Esau got angry, so Jacob ran away. Jacob worked for his uncle Laban so he could marry Rachel. But Laban tricked Jacob into marrying Leah first. Jacob had many children. He was very sad when his son Joseph was taken to Egypt. When there was no food, Jacob moved to Egypt. He died there and was buried in Canaan.
Singapore\n\nSingapore is a small country that is also a city. It is an island in Southeast Asia, near the equator. About 5.7 million people live there. Most people are Chinese, Malay, or Indian. Singapore is called the 'Lion City' and the 'Garden City' because there are many plants everywhere. The country has four official languages: English, Chinese, Malay, and Tamil. English is the main language used in schools and government. Singapore was started as a trading place by a man named Stamford Raffles in 1819. It was part of the British Empire for a long time. During World War II, Japan took over Singapore for a few years. After the war, Singapore joined Malaysia in 1963 but became its own country in 1965. Singapore has very good schools, hospitals, and houses. It is a very safe place with strict rules. People who break the rules have to pay fines. Singapore is also known for its good food and many different kinds of people living together.
Sled\n\nA sled is a thing you sit on to slide over snow or ice. It does not have wheels. You can sit on a sled and go down a snowy hill very fast. Some sleds are pulled by dogs or horses. People use sleds in cold places where there is lots of snow.
FIFA World Cup\n\nThe FIFA World Cup is a big soccer game that happens every four years. Many countries send their best teams to play. People all over the world watch it on TV. Brazil has won the most times. The games last for four weeks in the summer. The winning team gets a big trophy.
Tableware\n\nTableware is the name for the things we use when we eat. It includes plates, bowls, cups, forks, spoons, and knives. Some people call it dishes or silverware. Different families use different tableware. Some people eat with their hands or use bread instead of a plate. For special parties, people might use fancy dishes that look very pretty.
Denmark\n\nDenmark is a country in northern Europe. It is next to Germany, Sweden, and Norway. The capital city is Copenhagen. Denmark is a kingdom with a king named Frederik X. The people vote to choose who runs the country. Denmark is known as a very happy place. The land is mostly flat with many small hills, lakes, and farms. There are many islands, and no one lives far from the sea. The weather is often windy and rainy. In winter it is not very cold, and in summer it is not very hot. Long ago, the Vikings lived in Denmark. Today, Denmark is part of a group called the European Union.
Eurasian Steppe\n\nThe Eurasian Steppe is a very big, flat piece of land covered in grass. It is in the north part of the world, from Europe all the way to China. Long ago, people called nomads lived there and moved around on horses. The horse may have come from this grassy land. The steppe was like a road that helped people travel from China to Europe. Many different groups of people ruled the steppe at different times.
Galaxy\n\nA galaxy is a big group of stars, gas, and dust in space. Our Sun and Earth are inside a galaxy called the Milky Way. There are many different kinds of galaxies. Some look like a spinning pinwheel with arms, and those are called spiral galaxies. Others look like a round or stretched ball, and those are called elliptical galaxies. Galaxies come in different sizes. Some are small with only a few million stars, and some are giant with many trillions of stars. Gravity holds all the stars in a galaxy together. Sometimes galaxies bump into each other, and that can make new stars. There are more galaxies in the sky than we can count.
Africa\n\nAfrica is a very big piece of land on Earth. It is the third biggest continent. Many countries are in Africa, and lots of people live there. Africa has a very hot, dry desert called the Sahara. It also has big forests and grasslands. Many wild animals live in Africa, like lions, elephants, giraffes, and zebras. People in Africa speak many different languages. The first people on Earth came from Africa.
So Paulo\n\nSão Paulo is a very big city in Brazil. It is the biggest city in South America. More than 11 million people live there. The city has many tall buildings, cars, and buses. Many people work in shops, factories, and offices. São Paulo has a big underground train called the Metro. People also travel by bus and helicopter. The city has many people from different places, like Italy, Japan, and Portugal. Football is very popular, and there are big football teams like Corinthians, Palmeiras, and São Paulo. The city also has a car race every year. São Paulo is very busy, and sometimes the traffic is very slow. People can spend a long time in traffic every day.
Hyrax\n\nA hyrax is a small, round animal with thick fur and a very short tail. It lives in Africa and a tiny part of Asia. Hyraxes eat plants and have small hooves on their feet. They are about as long as a ruler and weigh as much as a big bag of sugar. Some people call them dassies. A long time ago, people thought rabbits were a kind of hyrax.
Roman mythology\n\nRoman mythology is a big set of stories from long ago in a place called Ancient Rome. These stories tell about the world and about many gods and goddesses. The gods and goddesses have magic powers. They can become invisible and move very fast. They can turn people into animals. They never get sick and cannot die. The Romans also took some stories from Greek myths and made them their own.
Language family\n\nA language family is a group of languages that are like cousins. They come from one old language that people spoke a long time ago. For example, French and Spanish both came from Latin. That is why some words in French and Spanish sound a little alike. Most languages belong to a language family, but a few languages do not. Those are called language isolates. Some languages are made up by people on purpose, like Esperanto. There are many big language families in the world.
Yam\n\nA yam is a vegetable that grows under the ground. It looks like a sweet potato but is not the same. The outside of a yam is rough and hard to peel. The inside can be white, yellow, orange, purple, or pink. Yams can be very big and heavy. People cook yams in many ways: they can bake, boil, fry, or grill them. Yams grow in Africa, Asia, and other warm places. Most yams come from West Africa. Some people in the United States call sweet potatoes yams, but that is a mistake.
Political party\n\nA political party is a group of people who work together to run a country. They try to win elections so they can make the rules. In many countries, people vote for the party they like best. The party that gets the most votes gets to be in charge. The next biggest party is called the opposition. Sometimes two or more parties join together to run the government. Some parties have ideas about how to take care of nature or how to share money. In some places, only one party is allowed. In other places, all parties are banned.
Automation\n\nAutomation is when a machine can do its job all by itself without a person helping it. For example, a special part called a governor can make a steam engine work on its own. Machines that are automated make things that look the same every time. They also do boring or dangerous jobs so people do not have to. With automation, people do not need to lift heavy things or do scary work.
Sugarcane\n\nSugarcane is a tall plant that grows in warm places. It first grew in Asia, and now people grow it in many countries. The biggest place for sugarcane is Brazil. The stalks of sugarcane can be as tall as a house. Inside the stalks there is sugar. People use the sugar to make food and drinks sweet. You can also press the stalks to get sugarcane juice. After the sugar is taken out, the leftover parts can be burned to make heat and electricity, or made into paper and boxes. Sugarcane needs a lot of sun and water to grow well.
Cooking oil\n\nCooking oil is a clean fat that comes from plants or animals. It is a liquid that people use to cook food. You can put it in a pan to fry eggs or make vegetables taste good. Some cooking oils come from seeds, nuts, or fruits. They help food not stick to the pan and make it yummy.
Golden Temple\n\nThe Golden Temple is a very special place for Sikh people. It is in a city called Amritsar, in India. The temple has a big pool of water around it, and the top part is covered with shiny gold. People from all over the world come to visit. Inside, there is a holy book called the Guru Granth Sahib. The temple has four doors, so everyone can come in. There is also a kitchen where anyone can eat a free meal. Many people go there to pray and feel happy.
Shape\n\nA shape is how something looks on the outside. Some shapes are flat, like a square or a circle. Those are called 2D shapes. Other shapes are not flat, like a ball or a box. Those are called 3D shapes. Shapes can be big or small, and you can turn them around. Triangles and squares are shapes with straight sides. Circles have a round side. Some shapes are very hard to see, like 4D shapes, but people still think about them.
Scouting\n\nScouting is a group where kids learn to work together and help others. It started a long time ago, in 1907, by a man named Robert Baden-Powell. He was a soldier who taught boys how to survive outside. Scouts spend a lot of time outdoors, in the woods or fields. They learn to tie knots, build fires, and find their way. Scouts also make a promise to be kind and helpful. At first, only boys could be Scouts. Later, girls joined too. Today, millions of kids all over the world are Scouts. They wear special uniforms and earn badges for learning new things.
Battleship\n\nA battleship is a very big and strong boat that fights in the water. It has thick metal skin to keep it safe, and huge guns that shoot far away. Battleships were made a long time ago, from about 1880 to the 1940s. They were the biggest and most expensive war boats. Many countries like Britain, France, Germany, and the United States built them. In World War I and World War II, battleships fought in big battles. But later, planes from aircraft carriers became better at fighting, so battleships were not used as much. Today, some old battleships are in museums where people can visit them.
Venus de Milo\n\nThe Venus de Milo is a very old stone statue from Greece. It is made of white marble and is as tall as a grown-up person. The statue shows a woman who is a goddess of love. It was found on a Greek island a long time ago, broken into pieces. Now it lives in a big museum in Paris, France, where many people go to see it.
Armenia\n\nArmenia is a country in the Caucasus mountains, between Europe and Asia. It does not touch any ocean. The capital city is Yerevan. A long time ago, Armenia was the first country in the world to make Christianity its main religion. People in Armenia speak Armenian and use a special alphabet made long ago. Armenia has ten parts called provinces. Many people in Armenia go to church. Some people called Yazidis also live there. Armenia became its own country again in 1991.
Animal\n\nAnimals are living things that can move around. They eat other living things for energy. Some animals eat plants, some eat meat, and some eat both. Animals need air to breathe. They live in many different places, like water, land, and trees. There are many kinds of animals, like fish, birds, and mammals. Some animals have a backbone, and some do not.
Swimsuit\n\nA swimsuit is a piece of clothing you wear when you go swimming. It is also called a bathing suit. Some swimsuits cover your whole body like a one-piece, and some are two pieces called a bikini. Swimsuits can be tight or loose. They are made so they do not show your skin when they get wet. Germs can grow on a wet swimsuit, so you should take it off and put on dry clothes right away. Do not share a swimsuit with a friend unless it is washed first.
Household\n\nA household is a group of people who live together in the same home. They share things like food, money, and chores. Often a household is a family, but it can also be friends or other people. Living together helps everyone because they can share the cost of things like rent and food. People in a household take care of each other.
Starling\n\nA starling is a small to medium-sized bird that can sing many different songs. Starlings live in Europe, Asia, and Africa, and some were brought to North America, Hawaii, and New Zealand. They have strong feet and fly fast and straight. Starlings like to be together in big groups called flocks. These flocks can be huge, with thousands or even millions of birds. They fly in the sky and make shapes that change all the time. Starlings eat insects and fruit. They have dark feathers with shiny spots. Some starlings can copy sounds they hear, like car alarms or people talking. Many starlings build nests in holes and lay blue or white eggs.
Perseus\n\nPerseus is a hero from old Greek stories. His father was Zeus, a god, and his mother was a princess named Dana. When Perseus was a baby, his grandfather put him and his mother in a box and threw it into the sea. A god helped them float to an island, where a kind man named Diktys took care of them. When Perseus grew up, a king named Polydectes sent him to kill a monster called Medusa. Medusa had snakes for hair, and anyone who looked at her turned to stone. Perseus got help from the gods: Hermes gave him flying shoes, Hades gave him a hat that made him invisible, and Athena gave him a shiny shield. He used the shield to see Medusa without looking at her, and he cut off her head. On his way home, he saved a princess named Andromeda from a sea monster and married her.
Electronic music\n\nElectronic music is music made with machines like computers and synthesizers. People use these machines to make new sounds that are different from regular instruments like drums or guitars. Sometimes they record sounds from everyday life, like water or birds, and change them with a tape recorder. They can make sounds play faster, slower, backwards, or over and over. Many musicians use electronic sounds in pop, rock, and rap music. Some electronic music is made for dancing, and it is called EDM. Today, electronic music is very common and many artists use it.
Tasmanian devil\n\nA Tasmanian devil is a meat-eating animal that lives in Tasmania, an island in Australia. It is about the size of a small dog and has black fur, a wide head, and a short tail. It sleeps during the day and is awake at night. It makes a loud, scary screeching sound. It hunts other animals and also eats dead animals. It has very strong teeth and jaws and can eat everything, even bones and fur. A mother Tasmanian devil carries her babies in a pouch on her belly. These animals are in danger because of a sickness that gives them big bumps on their faces. People are trying to help them stay safe.
Action figure\n\nAn action figure is a small toy that looks like a person. It is made of plastic and can move its arms, legs, and head. You can make it stand in different poses. Action figures are often based on characters from movies, TV shows, comic books, or video games. One famous action figure is G.I. Joe, who looks like a soldier. Action figures were first made in 1964 by a company called Hasbro. They wanted to make a toy for boys, like how Barbie was a toy for girls. Later, superheroes from Marvel and DC Comics became action figures. Today, both kids and grown-ups collect action figures. Some people keep them in boxes to save them. Action figures can be of movie characters, musicians, or athletes.
Silver\n\nSilver is a shiny, soft metal that is bluish-white. It is very special because it shines more than most other metals and can carry electricity and heat better than any other metal. People have used silver for a very long time to make jewelry, coins, and pretty things. You can bend silver easily and make it into thin wire or flat sheets. Silver does not get rusty like iron, but it can turn black if there is a bad smell in the air. Some silver is used to kill tiny germs and help burns get better. Silver is found in rocks in places like Canada, Mexico, Peru, and the United States.
Meditation\n\nMeditation is a quiet time when you sit still and pay attention to your breathing or to a calm thought. It helps your mind feel peaceful and less busy. Many people do meditation to feel relaxed and happy. Some people who follow religions like Buddhism or Hinduism use meditation as part of their prayers. In Buddhism, people focus on their breath or on loving everyone, even people they do not like. In Christianity, people sometimes think about a short part of the Bible or say a prayer over and over. Meditation can help you feel less worried or sad. You can do it anywhere, even at home, by sitting quietly and taking slow breaths.
Bomb\n\nA bomb is a thing that goes BOOM very fast. It breaks things apart. Bombs have been used for a long, long time. Some bombs throw sharp pieces of metal. Some bombs make fire. Bombs are filled with special stuff that makes a big bang. Airplanes drop bombs to break things far away. Bad people sometimes use bombs to hurt others. But the same stuff used in bombs can also be used to break rocks in mines.
Intellectual disability\n\nIntellectual disability is a problem with the brain that makes it hard for a person to learn and do everyday things. People with this disability may need help from others to get through the day. It starts when a person is a child. Some people have a mild form and can learn many things with help. Others have a more serious form and need more help. There is no cure, but with good teaching and support, people with intellectual disability can learn to do many things.
The Scream\n\nThe Scream is a famous painting by an artist named Edvard Munch. The picture shows a creature with its mouth and eyes wide open. Munch got the idea when he was walking with friends at sunset and the sky was red. He heard a sound in his ears, like nature screaming. The painting was made with paint and pastel on cardboard. It is in a museum in Oslo, Norway. Munch made four paintings of The Scream. In 1994, thieves stole one painting, but it was found three months later.
Beef\n\nBeef is a type of meat that comes from cows. People cook beef in many ways. Some beef is cut into steaks, and some is ground up to make hamburgers. Beef has protein and iron, which help your body grow strong. Eating too much beef can be bad for your health and for the planet. Making beef uses a lot of land and water, and it creates gases that warm the Earth. Beef is very popular in a country called Argentina.
Clarinet\n\nA clarinet is a musical instrument that you blow into to make sounds. It is long and black, made of a special wood or plastic. The clarinet has a thin piece called a reed that shakes when you blow, and that makes the sound. You cover holes with your fingers to play different notes. There are also little buttons for your pinkie finger. The clarinet is used in bands and orchestras. It is easier to play than many other wind instruments, so kids can learn it when their big teeth grow in. A famous song for the clarinet was written by Mozart a long time ago.
Blood test\n\nA blood test is a way doctors look at your blood to see if you are healthy. A nurse uses a small needle to take a little bit of blood from your arm or finger. The blood goes to a special room where machines check it. The test can show if you have a sickness, if your body has enough vitamins, or if your medicine is working.
Genie\n\nA genie is a make-believe creature that looks like a person but is invisible. Genies live in groups, eat, drink, and have feelings, just like people. They are stronger than people. Long ago, stories about genies came from the Middle East, especially Arabia. In some stories, genies can turn into snakes or disappear. In Islam, genies are made from fire or smoke, and they can be good or bad. In movies from the West, genies live in bottles and grant wishes. In movies from the Middle East, genies are scary like demons.
Armour\n\nArmour is a special covering that keeps people, animals, or things safe from getting hurt. A long time ago, armour was made from animal skin or metal. Today, some armour is made from strong plastic that does not break. People wear armour in some sports like ice hockey and American football. Tanks and cars can also have armour to protect them. Even dogs and horses can wear armour to stay safe.
Coelacanth\n\nA coelacanth is a big fish that lives in the deep ocean. It has been around for a very long time, even before dinosaurs. People thought it was gone forever until one was caught in 1938. Now we know there are still coelacanths swimming in the Indian Ocean. They are dark blue or brown and can be as long as a grown-up person. Their fins look like little legs. Fishermen do not like to eat them because they taste bad.
Endangered species\n\nAn endangered species is a kind of animal or plant that might go away forever. This can happen if there are not many left, if other animals eat too many of them, if the weather changes, or if the places where they live get broken. Many countries have rules to keep these animals and plants safe. People are not allowed to hunt them or build on their homes. Some animals that are in danger are big cats, whales, and some birds. We need to take care of them so they do not disappear.
Io (moon)\n\nIo is a moon that goes around the planet Jupiter. It is a little bigger than our own Moon. Io has many volcanoes that shoot hot lava and gas into the sky. There are about 400 volcanoes on Io. The volcanoes change how Io looks all the time. Io is very dry and has almost no water. One side of Io always faces Jupiter, just like our Moon always faces Earth.
Day\n\nA day is the time it takes for the Earth to spin all the way around once. When your part of the Earth faces the Sun, it is daytime and you see light. When your part of the Earth faces away from the Sun, it is nighttime and you see darkness. One day has both daytime and nighttime and lasts 24 hours.
South Pole\n\nThe South Pole is the very bottom of the Earth. It is in a cold, icy place called Antarctica. From the South Pole, every direction you look is north. The South Pole is on land covered by thick ice, more than a mile deep. It is very cold and windy there. The sun comes up only once a year and stays for half a year, then it goes away for half a year of dark winter. The first people to reach the South Pole were from Norway, led by Roald Amundsen, in 1911. Today there is a big science station at the South Pole where scientists live and work.
Strait of Malacca\n\nThe Strait of Malacca is a narrow water path between two big pieces of land. It is like a long, skinny river in the ocean. Big boats use it to travel from one sea to another. The strait is very long and very busy. Many ships go through it every day to carry food, toys, and other things from one country to another.
Chemical industry\n\nThe chemical industry is a big group of factories that make things from oil, gas, air, water, and rocks. These factories turn these raw materials into over 70,000 different products. Some factories make plastics. Most of the things they make are not sold to people in stores. Instead, they are used by scientists and workers to make other things like soap, paint, or medicine. Many people work in the chemical industry, including scientists and helpers in labs. The first big factory was built a long time ago in Scotland to make a special kind of acid.
Yugoslavia\n\nYugoslavia was a country in Europe. It was made up of many different groups of people who spoke different languages and had different ways of living. The name means "land of the southern Slavs." Yugoslavia started in 1918 after a big war and ended in the 1990s when it broke into smaller countries. Now, the land that was Yugoslavia is split into several countries like Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, North Macedonia, Montenegro, and Kosovo.
Inflation\n\nInflation is when prices of things like food and haircuts go up over time. This means you need more money to buy the same things. For example, if a loaf of bread cost one dollar last year, it might cost two dollars this year. Inflation can happen when there is too much money and not enough things to buy. It can also happen when it costs more to make things. Too much inflation is bad because people cannot buy as much with their money.
Support group\n\nA support group is a bunch of people who meet to help each other feel better. They talk about sad or hard things that happened to them. Sometimes a doctor or a helper starts the group. Everyone in the group listens and cares.
Interchangeable parts\n\nInterchangeable parts are parts that are made exactly the same so they can fit into any machine of the same kind. A long time ago, a man named Eli Whitney made guns with parts that were all the same. This way, if one part broke, you could put in a new one that fit. Later, Henry Ford used this idea to make cars. He made many cars fast and cheap because all the parts were the same. Workers put the cars together on a moving line. This helped many people buy a car.
Face\n\nYour face is the front part of your head. It has your eyes to see, your nose to smell, and your ears to hear. Your mouth is on your face too, and you use it to eat and talk. Your face also has eyebrows, eyelashes, cheeks, lips, teeth, skin, and a chin. The hair on your head is part of your face. When you look at someone, you look at their face first.
Gymnastics\n\nGymnastics is a sport where people do exercises that need strength, balance, and the ability to bend and stretch. Gymnasts run, jump, flip, and balance. They practice on different things like a floor mat, bars, a beam, and a vault. Some gymnasts use ribbons, balls, or hoops. Gymnastics is part of the Summer Olympic Games. It started a long time ago in ancient Greece.
Metric system\n\nThe metric system is a way to measure things. It uses meters for length, grams for weight, and liters for how much space something takes up. People all over the world use the metric system. It was first made in France a long time ago. The metric system is easy because it uses tens, like counting 10, 20, 30. A meter is about as long as a big step. A gram is very light, like a small paper clip. A liter is about as much as a big water bottle. The metric system has special names like centimeter for small lengths and kilometer for long distances. Many countries use the metric system for school, science, and everyday life.
Common wheat\n\nCommon wheat is a plant that people grow for food. It is also called bread wheat. Most of the wheat in the world is common wheat. Farmers have been picking the best wheat plants for a very long time. This wheat can grow in cold places. People use it to make bread, pasta, and other foods.
Humour\n\nHumour is when something makes you laugh or feel happy. Most people like to smile at funny things. You can make jokes with words that sound the same but mean different things. Sometimes people say the opposite of what you expect, and that is funny too. Different people like different kinds of funny. Grown-ups might like jokes that are hard for kids to understand. A comedian is a person whose job is to make people laugh.
Lychee\n\nA lychee is a fruit that grows on trees in warm, wet places. It has a hard, bumpy shell on the outside that is red or brown. Inside, the fruit is clear and pinkish-white, and it tastes very sweet. There is a hard brown seed in the middle that you should not eat because it is poisonous. You can eat lychees fresh, or freeze them to make them taste like cold, sweet treats.
Basalt\n\nBasalt is a dark rock that comes from volcanoes. It is black or grey and feels very hard. When a volcano pushes out hot lava, the lava cools fast and turns into basalt. People use basalt to build roads and sidewalks because it is strong. Basalt can also be found on the Moon and Mars.
Daniel (biblical figure)\n\nDaniel is a man from the Bible. He lived a long time ago in a faraway land called Babylon. Daniel was very brave and trusted God. He was thrown into a den of lions, but God kept him safe and the lions did not hurt him. Daniel had special dreams that helped him understand things. Many people still read about Daniel today.
Traffic collision\n\nA traffic collision is when a car hits another car, a person, or something else on the road. It can hurt people or even make them very sick. Many people get hurt in car crashes every year. To stay safe, roads have special paths for walking and biking, and places to cross safely.
Ice cream\n\nIce cream is a cold, sweet treat that you eat in summer. It is made from cream, milk, sugar, and flavors. The mixture is stirred while it freezes so it stays smooth and not icy. Ice cream comes in many colors and tastes. The most common flavors are vanilla, chocolate, and strawberry. You can buy ice cream in a store, from a truck, or in a shop. Some ice cream has chocolate chips, nuts, fruit, or candy mixed in. You can eat it in a cone, a bowl, or on a stick. A long time ago, people in Persia and China made early kinds of ice cream with ice and flavorings. Now many people have freezers at home, so they can keep ice cream for a long time.
Information Age\n\nThe Information Age is a time in history that started around the middle of the 1900s. It is when people began using computers and the internet to share information very quickly. Before this time, most things were done with paper and machines that used moving parts. The Information Age began when a tiny part called a transistor was invented in 1947. This helped make computers smaller and cheaper. Soon, people could have computers at home. The internet was first used in 1969 when a message was sent between two computers far apart. Now, we can send pictures, music, and words to anyone in the world almost instantly. The Information Age changed how we work, play, and talk to each other.
Breathing\n\nBreathing is moving air in and out of your lungs. When you breathe in, air goes into your lungs. That air has something called oxygen in it. Your body needs oxygen to work. When you breathe out, a gas called carbon dioxide leaves your body. Your brain tells your body when to breathe. It has a special part that checks how much carbon dioxide is in your blood. If there is too much, it tells you to breathe faster. A big muscle under your ribs called the diaphragm helps you breathe. It moves down when you breathe in and up when you breathe out. Other muscles between your ribs also help. When you run and play, you breathe faster to get more oxygen.
Measles\n\nMeasles is a sickness that you can catch from other people. It is caused by a tiny germ called a virus. When someone with measles breathes out, tiny drops of water with the virus go into the air. If you breathe those drops in, you can get sick too. People with measles have a sore throat, a fever, a cough, red eyes, and a runny nose. They also get a red, bumpy rash all over their body that itches a lot. Measles is very easy to catch. If one person in a house has it, other people in the house will probably get it too. There is a shot called a vaccine that can stop you from getting measles. Many children get this shot. There is no medicine that can cure measles. People who are sick rest and take medicine to feel better and stop the fever. Most people get better, but some people can die from measles.
Ukraine\n\nUkraine is a country in Eastern Europe. It is a big country with many people. The capital of Ukraine is a city called Kyiv. Ukraine has a big river called the Dnieper that runs through it. The country is next to the Black Sea, which is a big body of water. People in Ukraine speak Ukrainian. Ukraine used to be part of a bigger country called the Soviet Union, but it became its own country in 1991. The name Ukraine means "borderland" or "edge." Long ago, a powerful state called Kyivan Rus was in this land. The people of Ukraine are called Ukrainians.
Carpet\n\nA carpet is a big piece of soft cloth that goes on the floor. Carpets make a room look pretty and help keep your feet warm. Walking on a carpet is quiet and soft. Some carpets are made by hand, and some are made by machines. The oldest carpet ever found was very old and came from a cold place called Siberia. A small carpet is called a rug. People in some places use rugs to kneel on when they pray. Some carpets even tell stories with their colors and shapes.
Arctic Ocean\n\nThe Arctic Ocean is the ocean at the very top of the world, around the North Pole. It is the smallest of all the oceans. In winter, thick ice and snow cover almost all of it. Even in summer, most of the ocean is still covered with ice. Special boats called icebreakers can push through the ice to travel. The Arctic Ocean is home to animals like polar bears, walruses, and whales. These animals need the ice to live. The ocean is getting less icy every year because the Earth is getting warmer. The water is very cold, almost frozen, and it is salty but not as salty as other oceans.
Drone\n\nA drone is a flying machine that has no person inside. A person on the ground tells it what to do with a remote control. Drones come in many sizes. Some are as small as a toy, and some are as big as a real airplane. Big drones are used by the army to watch places from the sky. Small drones are used to take pictures from up high. Some people race drones for fun. Drones are not allowed near airports or big cities because they can be dangerous.
Plastic\n\nPlastic is a material that can change its shape easily. Many things are made of plastic, like toys, food containers, bags, and clothes. Some plastic can be soft when hot and hard when cold. People use plastic to make many things because it is easy to shape. Most plastic is made from oil or gas. Old plastic can stay for a very long time, so it can make the world dirty. Some plastic can be used again, but most is thrown away.
Savanna\n\nA savanna is a big, flat place with lots of tall grass and a few trees and bushes. The most famous savanna is in Africa. It has a rainy season and a dry season. Many animals live there, like zebras, giraffes, elephants, lions, and cheetahs. In the dry season, some animals move to find water. Savannas also exist in Australia, North America, and South America. In Australia, eucalyptus trees grow. In North America, oak trees are common. Fires sometimes happen in savannas, but the grass grows back from the roots.
Western (genre)\n\nA Western is a kind of story. It is about cowboys who live in the old American West, a long time ago. These stories show people riding horses, wearing big hats, and living on wide plains. Westerns can be movies, TV shows, or books. They have been around since the very first movies were made.
Tibet\n\nTibet is a place high up in the mountains in Asia. It is part of China. The main city is called Lhasa. Many people in Tibet follow a religion called Buddhism. The leader of the Buddhists in Tibet is called the Dalai Lama. He had to leave Tibet a long time ago and now lives in another country. Tibet has very tall mountains and cold weather. Some people live in houses made of stone. They grow food like barley and raise animals like yaks. The people in Tibet have their own special clothes and music.
Community\n\nA community is a group of people or animals that live in the same place. They like to do the same things and help each other. People in a community share ideas and take care of one another. Even though everyone is different, they all work together to make the community a nice place to be.
Solstice\n\nA solstice is a special day that happens two times every year. On a solstice, the sun stops moving higher or lower in the sky and then goes the other way. One solstice is the longest day of the year, and the other is the shortest day of the year. In June, the sun is high in the sky for people who live in the north part of the world, and that day is very long. In December, the sun is low in the sky for people in the north, and that day is very short. Long ago, people had big parties on solstice days because they were happy that the days were getting longer or shorter.
Albatross\n\nAn albatross is a very big bird that lives near the ocean. It has long wings and can fly for a long time without stopping. Albatrosses eat fish, squid, and tiny sea animals. They come to land only to make nests and lay eggs. They build nests on islands, often near other birds. Albatrosses can live for many years, sometimes more than 50. They are very good at flying, but they need wind to help them. When there is no wind, they rest on the water. Some kinds of albatrosses are in danger because rats and cats eat their eggs, or because they get caught on fishing hooks.
Chickpea\n\nA chickpea is a small, round, yellow bean that you can eat. People buy chickpeas in a can or in a bag. They are soft and taste a little bit like a nut. You can mash them up to make hummus, which is a yummy dip. Chickpeas are good for you because they have protein, which helps your body grow strong. They come from a plant and grow in the ground.
Greenland\n\nGreenland is a very big island, the biggest island in the whole world. It is very cold there, and most of the land is covered with ice. Only about 50,000 people live in Greenland, mostly near the coast. The capital city is called Nuuk. There are no forests in Greenland, only small trees in the south. The people who live there speak Greenlandic and Danish. Many mountains are on the island, and the tallest one is called Gunnbjorn Fjeld. In summer it is cool, and in winter it is very cold and long.
Orchard\n\nAn orchard is a place where fruit trees grow. You can find apple trees, pear trees, and nut trees in an orchard. People grow the fruit to eat and to sell at stores. Some orchards are part of big gardens where families can pick their own fruit. The trees are planted in rows so it is easy to walk between them.
Sonata\n\nA sonata is a piece of music that one person plays on an instrument, sometimes with another person playing along. The word comes from an Italian word that means "to sound." A sonata is usually long and has several parts, called movements. A short and simple sonata is called a sonatina. Long ago, people played sonatas in their homes or in churches. Some sonatas are played on the piano, and some are played on the violin, flute, or other instruments. Famous composers like Mozart and Beethoven wrote many sonatas.
Mount Kilimanjaro\n\nMount Kilimanjaro is a very tall mountain in Africa. It is the tallest mountain in all of Africa. It is so tall that snow stays on top all year. The mountain is a volcano, but it has not erupted for a very long time. Many people like to climb it. They walk up special paths to reach the top. The climb takes many days because the mountain is very high. Some people feel sick from the high air. The mountain looks shiny and white from far away.
Electronics\n\nElectronics is about using electricity to make things work, like computers and TVs. It uses special parts called components, like batteries, bulbs, and wires, that connect together in a circle called a circuit. A TV has parts that take a signal from the air or a cable, change it, and then show a picture on a screen and play sound. Long ago, people used big glass tubes to control electricity. Later, they made tiny parts called transistors that use less power. Now, many things use small chips that have lots of parts inside. Some circuits are analog, which means they work with many levels, like the sound of your voice. Other circuits are digital, which means they just turn on and off, like a light switch. Computers and clocks use digital circuits. Radar uses circuits to send out bursts of energy that bounce off things like planes and show where they are.
Character\n\nA character can be a person in a story, movie, or game. Characters can be real or make-believe. Some characters are heroes, some are funny, and some are helpers. You can draw a character or pretend to be one when you play.
Bee\n\nA bee is a flying insect that buzzes. Bees have six legs and two pairs of wings. Many bees are hairy and have yellow and black or orange and black colors. Bees live all over the world except in very cold places like Antarctica. Bees collect pollen from flowers. Some bees live together in big groups called colonies. A colony lives in a home called a hive. In a hive, there is one queen bee who lays eggs. Worker bees are female and they collect pollen and protect the hive. Drone bees are male and they help the queen make eggs. Some bees have a stinger on their back. If a bee gets scared, it might sting and it hurts. After a worker bee stings, it dies. People keep honey bees to get honey.
Torah\n\nThe Torah is a special book for Jewish people. The word Torah means "instructions." It has the first five books of the Bible. These books are called Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. People also call them the Five Books of Moses. The Torah tells stories about the beginning of the world and about people like Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph. It also tells how the Jewish people left Egypt and got rules for how to live. Every week, a small part of the Torah is read in a synagogue.
Jackfruit\n\nJackfruit is a big fruit that grows on a tree. It comes from India, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka. The fruit starts out green and turns yellow when it is ready to eat. Jackfruit is the biggest fruit that grows on a tree. It can be as heavy as a big bag of groceries and as long as your arm. The tree has shiny green leaves. People cook the seeds and eat them. They also cook the green, not-yet-ripe fruit like a vegetable. The ripe fruit is sweet and can be eaten cold.
Oven\n\nAn oven is a closed box that gets very hot inside. People use it to cook food like bread, cookies, and pizza. The heat inside an oven is dry and spreads all around the food. Some ovens use electricity to get hot, and some use gas or coal. There are also ovens outside made of brick or clay that are buried in hot coals. A special oven for making pots is called a kiln. Ovens are very hot, so things that come out of them are hot too.
Adam and Eve\n\nAdam and Eve are the first two people in the Bible. God made Adam from dust and breathed life into him. Then God made Eve from one of Adam's ribs. They lived in a beautiful garden called Eden. God told them not to eat fruit from one special tree. A sneaky snake told Eve to eat the fruit, and she gave some to Adam. God was sad because they did not listen. So God sent them out of the garden. After that, people had to work hard and feel pain. Adam and Eve are the parents of all people.
Crow\n\nA crow is a bird with black feathers. Crows are medium-sized birds that eat many things like bugs, worms, nuts, and even leftover food. They are very smart and can use sticks as tools to get food. Crows live in many places around the world, except in South America. They like open areas where they can see well. Sometimes crows live alone or in pairs, and sometimes they gather in big groups called flocks. A group of crows can also be called a murder. Crows are shy at first but can get used to people. Some crows have been known to bring small gifts to people who feed them.
Guilt (emotion)\n\nGuilt is a feeling you get when you think you did something wrong. It makes you feel bad inside. Your heart might feel heavy, and you might want to say sorry. Guilt helps you know the difference between right and wrong. When you feel guilty, you can try to fix what you did wrong. Sometimes guilt makes you worry a lot. It is a feeling that people start to have when they are little kids.
Paganism\n\nPaganism is a word for many different beliefs about gods and nature. Long ago, some people believed in many gods and goddesses, like in the old Greek stories. Pagans often think about nature and the world around them. Today, some people call themselves Pagans and they honor the Earth. One well-known Pagan religion is Wicca. Another is Druidism. Pagans do not all believe the same things, but they all care about nature and the world we live in.
Rice\n\nRice is a food that people eat. It comes from a plant that grows in warm, wet places. Rice is a kind of grass. Many people in Asia eat rice every day. It is also eaten in other parts of the world. Rice is usually cooked before you eat it. You can eat it with sauce, curry, or soup. Some people fry rice in oil first. Rice can also be used to make a drink called sake. Rice grows in fields that are filled with water. There are many kinds of rice. Some rice is long and not sticky. Other rice is short and sticky. Brown rice has more of the plant left on it, so it has more fiber than white rice.
Touchscreen\n\nA touchscreen is a special screen that you can touch with your finger to make things happen. You do not need a mouse or a remote control. Many phones and tablets have touchscreens. You can tap on pictures or words to open them. Some touchscreens work even if you touch them with a special pen called a stylus. Touchscreens are used in stores, banks, and schools. They are easy to use.
Capital city\n\nA capital city is a special city where a country's leaders work. It is often the biggest city in the country, but not always. For example, the capital of the United States is Washington, D.C., but New York City is bigger. Some countries have more than one capital. Bolivia has two, and South Africa has three. A few countries, like Nauru, do not have a capital city at all. The leaders and important offices are usually in the capital.
Child\n\nA child is a young person. A child can be a boy or a girl. Children like to play and use their imagination. In many places, children go to school to learn. Some children go to preschool or kindergarten. A child's mom and dad are called parents. If a child has no parents, they are called an orphan. A child who lives with new parents is called an adopted child.
Window\n\nA window is a hole in a wall or roof that lets air and light come inside. It is usually made of glass so you can see through it. Windows can be many shapes, like square, round, or even colored. Some windows open and close, and some stay shut. Curtains or blinds can cover a window to keep light out or give privacy. Long ago, people used paper instead of glass to fill the hole.
Killer whale\n\nA killer whale is a big animal that lives in the ocean. It is black with white patches. It is the biggest kind of dolphin. Killer whales live in family groups called pods. They eat many things like fish, seals, and even sharks. They are very smart and can learn tricks. Baby killer whales are called calves. Their tall fin on top can be seen above the water. Sometimes people see them in shows at parks.
Pronghorn\n\nA pronghorn is a mammal that looks like an antelope. It lives in North America, in prairies, deserts, and mountains. The pronghorn is the fastest land animal in the Western Hemisphere. It can run very fast, almost as fast as a cheetah, and it can keep running fast for a long time. The pronghorn has yellowish-brown fur with a white belly and white stripes on its neck. Male pronghorns have horns that are about as long as a ruler. They eat grass, leaves, and herbs. Baby pronghorns are born in spring and can run with their mother after one week.
Criminal law\n\nCriminal law is the set of rules that tell people what they cannot do. If someone breaks a rule, like taking something that is not theirs, they get in trouble. These rules help keep people safe and protect things that belong to them. Criminal law is different from other rules about money or promises.
Trunk (botany)\n\nA trunk is the big, thick part of a tree that stands up from the ground. It holds the branches and leaves up high. The trunk is covered with bark, which is like a coat that keeps the tree safe. Inside the trunk, there are different layers. Some parts are hard and dark, and some parts help water move up the tree. People cut down tree trunks to make wood for building things.
Seamount\n\nA seamount is a big mountain under the ocean. It is so tall that it goes up from the sea floor, but it does not stick out of the water like an island. Most seamounts are made by volcanoes under the sea. They can be very tall, as tall as a thousand big buildings stacked on top of each other. Many fish and other sea animals live near seamounts because the water brings them food. Some seamounts are flat on top because the waves wore them down long ago. There are many seamounts all over the world, but we have only looked at a few of them.
Domestication\n\nDomestication is when wild animals or plants change after people keep them for a long time. People choose which animals to have babies, so the babies become friendlier and more helpful. The first animal people tamed was the dog. Later, people tamed sheep, goats, cows, and pigs. Some animals give us food, some give us clothes, and some are just pets. Cats were also tamed long ago. People also tamed plants to grow food like wheat. When animals or plants are tamed, they need people to take care of them.
Truck\n\nA truck is a big car that carries things from one place to another. Trucks come in many sizes. Some are small like a car, and some are very big. Big trucks can carry heavy loads like sand, rocks, or food. Some trucks have a closed box on the back to keep things safe. Other trucks have a flat bed with no sides. A dump truck has a bed that lifts up to dump out sand or dirt. A concrete mixer has a big drum that turns around to mix concrete. Fire trucks carry water and hoses to put out fires. Garbage trucks pick up trash from houses. Trucks have a cabin in the front where the driver sits. The back part of the truck is for carrying things. Long ago, people used horses to pull wagons. Now trucks do that work much faster.
Land transport\n\nLand transport is how people, animals, and things move from one place to another on the ground. Long ago, people walked or used carts pulled by horses. The Romans built strong roads that were flat and straight. Later, people used coaches and wagons pulled by horses. In the 1900s, cars and trucks became the main way to travel on roads. Trains also move people and things on tracks. Trains can go very far and are not too expensive.
Equinox\n\nAn equinox is a special time when the sun shines right over the middle of the Earth. This happens two times every year. On equinox day, the daytime and nighttime are almost the same length. The word equinox means 'equal night.' The first equinox comes around March 21, and that is the start of spring. The second equinox comes around September 21, and that is the start of fall. People long ago had parties on equinox days.
Camellia\n\nA camellia is a plant with pretty flowers. It grows as a bush or a small tree. Camellia leaves are thick and shiny, and they stay green all year. The flowers can be white, pink, red, or yellow. They bloom in late winter, often before other flowers come out. Some camellia plants are used to make tea. People also grow camellias in gardens because the flowers are beautiful.
Music video\n\nA music video is a short movie that goes with a song. You can watch it on TV or a computer. The singer or band is usually in the video, singing or moving their lips to the song. Some TV channels like MTV play music videos all day. In some places, people call them PVs, which is short for "Promotional Video."
Tea\n\nTea is a warm drink people make by putting special leaves in hot water. The leaves come from a plant called Camellia sinensis. There are three main kinds of tea: green tea, black tea, and oolong tea. Green tea leaves are steamed to keep them green. Black tea leaves are dried until they turn brown or black. Oolong tea leaves are dried in the sun. People also make tea from fruits or other plants, like chamomile or rosehip. That is called herbal tea. Tea is the most popular drink in the world after water. Many countries grow tea, like China, India, and Japan. To make tea, you put the leaves in hot water for a few minutes, then you can drink it.
Bonobo\n\nA bonobo is a kind of ape that looks like a chimpanzee but is a little smaller. Bonobos live in the rain forest in a country in Africa. They spend most of their time in trees and eat fruits and plants. Bonobos are very friendly and like to hug and kiss each other. They use touch and play to feel happy and calm. A baby bonobo stays close to its mother for a long time. Bonobos are in danger because people cut down trees and hunt them.
Microscope\n\nA microscope is a tool that makes tiny things look much bigger. You can use it to see things that are too small for your eyes to see. Doctors and scientists use microscopes to look at very small bugs and cells. Students in school also use them to study little things. A microscope has a part you look through called the eyepiece and a part near the thing you are looking at called the objective. The lenses inside make the picture bigger, sometimes up to 1000 times bigger. That is much stronger than a magnifying glass. The most common kind of microscope uses light to see the tiny thing.
Turkish language\n\nTurkish is a language that people speak in Turkey and Cyprus. Many people around the world speak Turkish. It is a kind of language that is like other languages such as Azerbaijani and Uzbek. A long time ago, Turkish was written with different letters. Then a man named Mustafa Kemal Atatürk changed the letters to the ones we use in English. This made it easier for people to learn to read and write. Now Turkish has 29 letters, and some of them have special marks on top. When you hear Turkish, it sounds like the way it is written.
Mentha\n\nMentha is a plant that people call mint. It has green leaves that smell and taste cool. People use mint leaves to make food taste good, like in ice cream, tea, and sauce. There are many kinds of mint plants. Some people drink mint tea to help their tummy feel better.
Maharashtra\n\nMaharashtra is a big state in the west part of India. It sits next to the Arabian Sea. The main language people speak there is Marathi. Mumbai is the biggest city and the capital. Pune is another big city where many people go to school. Maharashtra has more business than any other state in India. There are old caves called Ajanta and Ellora that people visit. Farmers grow rice, wheat, and other foods. People there eat tasty dishes like Pav Bhaji and Vada Pav. Many people are Hindu and celebrate big festivals like Ganeshotsav, which lasts ten days. Cricket is a very popular game, and kids also play tag and other games.
Toucan\n\nA toucan is a bird that lives in warm forests in South America. It has a very big, colorful beak that can be orange, yellow, or red. The beak helps the toucan pick fruit from trees and stay cool. Toucans eat mostly fruit, but sometimes they eat bugs or small lizards. They live in small groups and sleep in holes in trees. Toucans fly short distances and do not travel far. Their bright beak helps them recognize each other and scare other birds away.
Komodo dragon\n\nA Komodo dragon is a very big lizard. It lives on some islands in Indonesia. It is the biggest lizard in the world. It can be as long as a car and as heavy as a grown-up person. It has a long tail, sharp teeth, and a forked tongue. Its skin can be blue, orange, green, gray, or brown. It eats meat, like deer, goats, and even smaller Komodo dragons. It can eat a whole goat in one bite. It has dangerous germs in its mouth that can make other animals sick. It also has poison in its jaws. Komodo dragons are good at smelling dead animals from far away. They can run fast and swim. Baby Komodo dragons live in trees to stay safe. They can live for 50 years. People protect them in a special park.
Social work\n\nSocial work is a job where people help others. A social worker is a person who is trained to help people who have problems. They help people who cannot help themselves, like people who are sick, poor, or have no home. Social workers also help people find food, money, and a safe place to live. It is a hard job because they have to solve many big problems. But it is also a very kind job because they care for others.
Momentum\n\nMomentum is how much push a moving thing has. A big heavy truck moving fast has a lot of momentum. A little ball rolling slow has only a little momentum. When two things bump into each other, their momentum can change. If a big truck hits a small car, the truck's momentum is bigger, so the car gets pushed. But the total momentum of both things together stays the same. That is called conservation of momentum. For example, when a gun shoots a bullet, the bullet goes forward and the gun goes backward a little. Their momentums are equal but opposite, so the total momentum is still zero.
Saint Peter\n\nSaint Peter was a friend of Jesus. He was a fisherman before Jesus asked him to come along. Peter was one of the twelve special helpers of Jesus. He saw Jesus do many amazing things. One time, Jesus said Peter was like a rock and would help build the church. When Jesus was taken away, Peter was scared and said he did not know Jesus. But later Jesus forgave Peter and gave him a job to take care of the people who follow Jesus. Peter wrote two letters that are in the Bible. He died in Rome a long time ago. People remember him as a very important person in the Christian church.
Horus\n\nHorus was a god in ancient Egypt. He was the god of the sky, the sun, and war. He looked like a falcon or a man with a falcon head. Sometimes he wore a special crown on his head. Horus had a fight with his uncle and lost his eye. The eye became a special sign that meant protection and good health. People in Egypt made jewelry with the eye to keep them safe. Horus was the son of Isis and Osiris. He helped the pharaoh, who was the king of Egypt. When a pharaoh died, the new pharaoh became like Horus. Horus was a good friend of Sobek, another god. People built temples for Horus in some towns in Egypt.
Middle East\n\nThe Middle East is a big area of land on Earth. It is between Europe and the Far East. Many people who live there follow the religion of Islam. A long time ago, very old cities and religions started in the Middle East. Today, many countries in the Middle East have oil that people use for cars and machines. Some places in the Middle East have arguments and wars.
Bali\n\nBali is an island in Indonesia. It is a place where many people go on vacation. Bali has tall mountains called volcanoes. The two biggest volcanoes are Mount Agung and Mount Batur. Mount Agung is special to the people who live there. Sometimes smoke and ash come out of the top. Bali also has old temples and green rice fields. People there do special dances and shadow puppet shows. Most people in Bali follow the Hindu religion. The big city in Bali is Denpasar. People use Indonesian money called rupiah.
Rocket\n\nA rocket is a machine that flies very fast by pushing fire out of its bottom. The fire makes hot air that shoots out and pushes the rocket up. Some rockets go to space and carry people or satellites. The first rockets were made in China a long time ago. They looked like arrows and were not very fast. Big rockets use special fuel to make a very hot fire. Some rockets are so strong they can take people to the moon. The first person to fly to space was Yuri Gagarin in 1961. A few years later, in 1969, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin went to the moon in a big rocket called Saturn V.
Urdu\n\nUrdu is a language that people speak in Pakistan and India. It sounds a lot like Hindi, and people who speak one can often understand the other. Urdu is written from right to left, like Persian. Many words in Urdu come from Persian, Arabic, and other languages. People use Urdu to talk, write poems, and show respect to others. Some famous Urdu poets are Mirza Ghalib and Muhammad Iqbal.
Electric eel\n\nThe electric eel is a fish that lives in South America. It can give a big shock to other animals. It uses the shock to catch food and to stay safe. The electric eel lives in muddy rivers like the Amazon. It breathes air because the water has very little air in it. Even though it is called an eel, it is not an eel. It is a knifefish. Most people do not keep it as a pet because it can shock them. But after it shocks many times, it runs out of power and cannot shock for a while.
Nightingale\n\nA nightingale is a small bird. It is a little bigger than a robin. Its back is plain brown, and its tail is reddish. Its belly is light-colored. The nightingale is famous for its loud song. It sings at night and during the day. Only the male bird sings. He sings to find a mate. The song has many whistles and trills. It sings even louder in cities because of the noise. The nightingale lives in Europe and Asia in the summer. In winter it flies to Africa. It makes its nest on the ground near bushes.
Relay\n\nA relay is a part that turns things on and off using a magnet. Long ago, people made relays to help messages travel far on wires. Today, relays help machines work. Cars and toys with lights use relays.
Finch\n\nA finch is a small bird that sings. It eats seeds from plants. Finches live in many warm places around the world. Some finches have bright colors. People sometimes keep finches as pets in cages.
Chainsaw\n\nA chainsaw is a tool that cuts trees. It has a long metal blade with sharp teeth that spin around very fast. A small engine makes the blade move. People use a chainsaw to cut down big trees or to chop wood for a fire. Some chainsaws can even cut concrete. The blade gets dull after a while, so it needs to be sharpened.
Southeast Asia\n\nSoutheast Asia is the part of Asia that is down near the bottom. There are 11 countries in this place. Some of these countries are on the big land, and some are on islands. Most of Southeast Asia is very warm because it is near the middle of the Earth. The countries in Southeast Asia are friends and work together in a group called ASEAN. One country, East Timor, is not in that group. The very top part of Myanmar is a little cooler.
Softball\n\nSoftball is a sport where players hit a big ball with a bat and run around bases. It is like baseball. Boys, girls, men, and women can all play softball. The ball is bigger than a baseball and is not soft. It can be yellow or white. Players throw the ball underhand. The team that is batting tries to hit the ball and run to home plate. The other team tries to catch the ball and get the batters out. After three outs, the teams switch places. Softball games usually have 3 to 7 innings. People play softball in parks and fields all over the world.
Agriculture\n\nAgriculture is how people grow food and take care of animals. Farmers grow plants like corn, wheat, and vegetables in fields. They also raise animals like cows, chickens, and pigs for milk, eggs, and meat. Some farmers work in forests or fish in water. Agriculture gives us food to eat and other things like wood and cotton. The word comes from old words that mean 'growing in a field.'
Abacus\n\nAn abacus is an old tool that helps people count and do math. It has rods with beads that you can slide up and down. You move the beads to add, subtract, multiply, and divide numbers. Some people who cannot see use an abacus because they can feel the beads. There is a Chinese abacus and a Japanese one called a soroban. They both work the same way. Expert users can do math very fast with an abacus.
Bicycle\n\nA bicycle is a machine with two wheels that people ride by pushing pedals with their feet. It has a seat to sit on, handlebars to steer, and a chain that helps the wheels turn. Bicycles are also called bikes. People ride bikes to go to school, to work, or just for fun. Riding a bike is good exercise and does not use gas like a car. The first bike was made of wood and had no pedals. Later, people added pedals and made bikes safer. Today, bikes have brakes to stop, gears to help go up hills, and sometimes a bell to warn others. It is important to wear a helmet when riding a bike to stay safe.
Cook Strait\n\nCook Strait is a big stretch of water between two islands in New Zealand. One island is called the North Island, and the other is called the South Island. The water on one side is the Tasman Sea, and on the other side is the South Pacific Ocean. A man named James Cook was the first person from far away to sail through it. The water can be rough and tricky because of the tides and weather. People often take a big boat called a ferry to cross from one island to the other.
Louvre\n\nThe Louvre is a big museum in Paris, France. It is the most visited art museum in the world. Many people go there to see paintings and statues. The most famous painting in the Louvre is the "Mona Lisa" by Leonardo da Vinci. There are also famous statues like the Venus de Milo and the Winged Victory of Samothrace. Long ago, a king named Philip II built a castle where the museum now stands. Later, another king named Francis I knocked down the castle and built a new palace. King Henry IV added a very long room called the Grande Galerie. Today, the museum has a big glass pyramid at the front door.
Sumatra\n\nSumatra is a very big island in Indonesia. It is one of the largest islands in the whole world. The Indian Ocean is next to it. Many people live there, about 50 million. The island has lots of land and is very long and wide.
Right angle\n\nA right angle is a special kind of corner. It looks like the corner of a square. When two lines meet to make a right angle, they make a shape like the letter L. The walls in your house meet the floor at a right angle. The top of the letter T also makes a right angle. When two lines cross and make four right angles, we say they are perpendicular.
Pole vault\n\nPole vault is a sport where a person runs fast and uses a long, bendy stick to jump over a high bar. The stick helps them go up and over. People do pole vault at big games like the Olympics. Both men and women can do this sport.
Hovercraft\n\nA hovercraft is a vehicle that floats on a cushion of air. It can move over water, land, ice, and other smooth places. The air pushes down and makes the hovercraft lift up. This lets it ride on different surfaces. People use hovercraft to carry cars, people, and things. Some hovercraft are used by the army to go on water and land. A man named Christopher Cockerell made the first hovercraft.
Reindeer\n\nA reindeer is a big animal that lives in very cold places. It has fur that is gray-brown and gets lighter in winter. Reindeer have big feet that help them walk on soft snow. Both boy and girl reindeer grow antlers on their heads. Boy reindeer have bigger antlers than girls. Reindeer eat grass, plants, and moss. In winter, they dig under the snow with their feet to find food. Reindeer live in groups called herds. Some reindeer are tame and live with people. People use them to pull sleds and for their fur and meat. Santa Claus has reindeer that pull his sleigh.
Kinetic energy\n\nKinetic energy is the energy something has when it moves. When you run, your body has kinetic energy. A ball rolling on the ground has kinetic energy too. The faster something moves, the more kinetic energy it has. Kinetic energy can turn into other kinds of energy, like when a moving toy stops and makes a sound.
Pharmacist\n\nA pharmacist is a person who gives out medicine to people. They work in a store called a pharmacy or in a hospital. When a doctor writes a note for medicine, the pharmacist reads it and gives the right medicine. They also tell you how to take it and what to watch out for. Sometimes they give shots that keep you from getting sick, like the flu shot. They can also help you pick medicine for a sore throat or a cold. Pharmacists check the work of helpers called pharmacy technicians, who count the pills and put them in bottles. Pharmacists make sure everything is safe and correct.
Black pepper\n\nBlack pepper is a plant that grows in warm places like India. People use its fruit, called a peppercorn, to make food taste hot. You can grind the peppercorn into a powder and put it on eggs, meat, or vegetables. Black pepper is one of the most common spices in the world. It has been used for a very long time. Some people think pepper makes you sneeze because it tickles your nose.
Noah\n\nNoah is a man from a very old story in the Bible. He built a big boat called an ark. God told Noah to build the ark because a big flood was coming. Noah put his family and two of every kind of animal on the ark. After the flood, a rainbow appeared in the sky. The rainbow was a promise that the world would never be flooded again.
Manufacturing\n\nManufacturing is making things from raw materials. It is a part of industry. Some things are big and need many steps to make, like cars. Other things are small and simple, like pencils. Often, machines help make the things. Long ago, people made things by hand using tools. Today, most things are made by machines in factories. Machines can make things faster and cheaper than people can.
Maya people\n\nThe Maya people are a group of people who live in Mexico and Central America. They have lived there for a very long time, even thousands of years. Long ago, they built big stone cities and pyramids. Today, many Maya still live in the same places, like Mexico, Guatemala, and Belize. They speak their own languages and have their own traditions.
Māori people\n\nThe Māori people are the first people who lived in New Zealand. They came from faraway islands in the ocean a long, long time ago. Before other people arrived, they just called themselves "ordinary." Now, more than 700,000 Māori live in New Zealand. They have their own language, which is an important language in the country along with English. The Māori are a big part of New Zealand's culture.
Oesophagus\n\nThe oesophagus is a tube inside your body. It goes from your mouth down to your stomach. When you eat food, the oesophagus pushes the food down to your stomach. It has muscles that squeeze the food along. A special muscle at the bottom opens to let food into your stomach and then closes again. The oesophagus helps you swallow.
Mail\n\nMail is something you send to other people through the post office. You can send a letter or a small package. You put a stamp on it to pay for sending it. Then you drop it in a post box. The post office picks it up and takes it to the person you sent it to. Some post offices also help people get passports or pay bills.
Brahmaputra River\n\nThe Brahmaputra River is a very long river in Asia. It starts high up in the mountains of Tibet, where snow and ice melt into water. Then it flows through India and Bangladesh. In spring, when the ice melts a lot, the river can get very big and cause floods. The river joins another big river called the Ganges and together they flow into the sea. Where they meet the sea, they make a big triangle of land called a delta.
Cycad\n\nA cycad is a plant that looks like a palm tree or a fern. It has a big round top of leaves and a thick trunk. Cycads are very old plants. They were alive when dinosaurs walked on Earth. Today there are not many cycads left. They grow in warm places. Some cycads have seeds that can make animals sick if they eat them.
Himalayas\n\nThe Himalayas are a big line of very tall mountains. They are in Asia, north of India. The word "Himalayas" means "House of Snow" because snow stays on the tops all year. The highest mountain in the world, Mount Everest, is in the Himalayas. Many other tall mountains are there too. The mountains block cold wind and make rain fall on one side. Many animals live there, like snow leopards, blue sheep, and yaks. Yaks are big and furry like wild ox. There are also many trees like pine and oak. Five big rivers start in the Himalayas and give water to people and animals.
Melon\n\nA melon is a fruit that is soft and juicy inside. Some melons are round and some are long. Watermelon is a kind of melon that is green on the outside and red on the inside. Cantaloupe is another kind of melon with orange inside. Melons grow in warm places. They first came from Africa and Asia. People eat melons as a cool snack on hot days. Melons have a lot of water in them, so they help you stay wet inside. The seeds of some melons can be used as medicine.
Sunflower\n\nA sunflower is a tall plant with a big, round, yellow flower. The flower is actually made of many tiny flowers. The middle part of the flower turns into seeds. Sunflowers need lots of sun to grow. They can grow very tall, even taller than a person. People eat the seeds as a snack. Birds also like to eat sunflower seeds. Sunflower oil comes from the seeds and is used for cooking. Sunflowers can be yellow, red, or orange.
Dublin\n\nDublin is a big city in a country called Ireland. It is the capital city, which means the most important city in that country. Many people live there. A long time ago, people called Vikings built Dublin next to a river. The river splits the city into two parts. Some famous writers lived in Dublin. Dublin has a very big sports stadium where people play games like hurling, football, rugby, and soccer.
Euphrates\n\nThe Euphrates is a very long river. It is one of two big rivers in a place called Mesopotamia. The other river is the Tigris. The two rivers meet and flow into the sea. Long ago, people used the Euphrates for water to drink and to help plants grow. Now there are big walls called dams that hold some of the water back, so less water flows to the sea.
Sailing ship\n\nA sailing ship is a very big boat that uses the wind to move. It has tall poles called masts, and big pieces of cloth called sails that catch the wind. The wind pushes the sails, and the ship goes forward. People have used sailing ships for a very long time, even before there were cars or trains. Long ago, sailing ships were the main way to carry things and people across the ocean. They were also used in wars. Today, big sailing ships are not used much anymore, but small ones called sailboats are still used for fun and play.
Quartz\n\nQuartz is a very hard rock that is clear and smooth. It is found all over the world in the ground. Many pretty stones like amethyst and rose quartz are kinds of quartz. People use quartz to make jewelry and clocks. Most sand on the beach is made of tiny bits of quartz. Some quartz has lines inside that show where a big rock from space hit the Earth long ago.
Ginkgo\n\nA ginkgo is a kind of tree. It has leaves that look like little fans. In the fall, the leaves turn bright yellow and fall off. The ginkgo tree is very old and comes from China. It is the special tree of China.
Lawn mower\n\nA lawn mower is a machine that cuts grass. Some lawn mowers are small and you push them. Some are big and you ride on them. The biggest ones are pulled by a tractor. They cut grass at parks, golf courses, and fields. Always be careful when using a lawn mower.
Vietnam\n\nVietnam is a country in Southeast Asia. It is next to Cambodia, China, and Laos. The capital city is Hanoi. The biggest city is Ho Chi Minh City. Many people live in Vietnam, almost 100 million. Vietnam is long and thin, like a snake. The north has four seasons: winter, spring, summer, and fall. The south is hot all year. Long ago, two sisters named Trung Trac and Trung Nhi led a fight to chase away the Chinese ruler. They made their own kingdom and stopped taxes. But a Chinese general beat them. After that, China ruled Vietnam for more than a thousand years. Later, France took over Vietnam. Then the country was split into North Vietnam and South Vietnam. The north was led by Ho Chi Minh. The two parts were supposed to have an election to become one country, but the election did not happen. Today, Vietnam is one country again.
Notre-Dame de Paris\n\nNotre-Dame de Paris is a very old church in Paris, France. It sits on a small island in the middle of the River Seine. Many people visit it every year. The church has two big round windows that are as wide as a car is long. A man named Victor Hugo wrote a story about this church, called 'The Hunchback of Notre Dame'. In 2019, a big fire hurt the church, but people are fixing it.
Plate\n\nA plate is a flat dish where you put food to eat. Plates can be made of hard clay, plastic, paper, or foam. Some plates are round and some are flat. You use a plate at mealtime to hold your food.\n\nThere is another kind of plate that is not for food. The ground under our feet is made of big, flat pieces called plates. These plates float on hot, soft rock deep inside the Earth. They move very, very slowly. When they bump into each other, they can make mountains or earthquakes.
Human evolution\n\nHuman evolution is the story of how people came to be. A long, long time ago, the first humans lived in Africa. They looked different from us and walked on two feet. Over many, many years, their brains grew bigger and they learned to make simple tools. Humans are close cousins to apes like chimpanzees and gorillas. We share many things with them, like our hands and how our bodies work. Scientists find old bones and tools to learn about how people changed over time.
Kinship\n\nKinship is how people are part of the same family. It tells us who our mom, dad, brothers, sisters, and cousins are. Some family ties come from being born into a family, like your parents and siblings. Other family ties come from things like marriage or adoption, when someone new joins the family. Your father's side of the family is one kind of family line, and your mother's side is another kind. Kinship helps us know who we are related to and who we belong with.
Free and open-source software\n\nFree and open-source software is a kind of computer program that anyone can look at, change, and share. The people who make it let everyone use it for free. You can even help make it better if you know how to work with computers. Many games and tools are made this way.
Aerodynamics\n\nAerodynamics is about how air moves around things that go fast. When a car or a plane moves, the air pushes on it. A plane can fly because its wings push air down, and that makes the plane go up. The shape of the wing helps the air move faster over the top, so the plane lifts up. The engine makes the plane go forward, but the air also pushes back, which is called drag. Aerodynamics helps make cars and planes go faster by making them smooth so the air slides past easily.
Moses\n\nMoses is a very important person in the Bible. He was a leader and a prophet. When Moses was a baby, a king wanted to hurt all baby boys. His mother put him in a basket in the river. A princess found him and took care of him. When Moses grew up, he helped his people leave Egypt. God gave Moses ten special rules called the Ten Commandments. Moses led his people through the desert for many years. God gave them food and water. Moses died when he was 120 years old. People still remember Moses today.
Lemur\n\nA lemur is a small animal that lives on the island of Madagascar. Lemurs are not monkeys, but they are part of the primate family. The name "lemur" means "ghost" because they make scary sounds at night. Lemurs come in many sizes, from as small as a mouse to as big as a cat. Most small lemurs are awake at night, while bigger ones are awake during the day. Lemurs have long tails and soft fur. The ring-tailed lemur has a black-and-white striped tail. Lemurs eat fruit, leaves, and other plants. They live in groups called troops, with 5 to 42 members. The girl lemurs are the bosses and stay in the same troop their whole lives. Boy lemurs move between groups. A mother lemur has one or two babies and feeds them milk for about four months. Then the babies start eating fruit. Lemurs spend most of their time in trees and can jump far from tree to tree. They talk to each other with hoots and smells. When a boy lemur wants to scare another boy, he rubs his tail on smelly spots under his arms and waves it in the other's face. That is called a stink fight. Lemurs are in danger because people cut down their homes and sometimes hunt them.
Kenya\n\nKenya is a country in East Africa, near the Indian Ocean. Its capital city is Nairobi. Kenya has many wild animals like lions, elephants, giraffes, and rhinos. People visit Kenya to see these animals in special parks. The land has lots of grass and some mountains. The highest mountain is Mount Kenya. Kenya is hot near the coast and cooler in the highlands. People in Kenya speak English and Swahili. Children go to school for eight years of primary school and four years of high school. Kenya became its own country in 1963.
Hydroelectricity\n\nHydroelectricity is electricity made by moving water. People build big walls called dams across rivers to hold water. When the water is let out, it rushes through pipes and spins a wheel called a turbine. The spinning turbine makes electricity. This kind of electricity does not make smoke or dirt, so it is good for the Earth. It can be used again and again because water never runs out. Some places like Norway make most of their electricity this way. But building a dam can flood land and force people to move. It can also hurt fish and other animals that live in the water.
Loan\n\nA loan is when someone gives you money, and you promise to give it back later. You might pay a little bit each month until you have paid all of it back. Sometimes you also have to pay extra money called interest, which is like a fee for borrowing. Some loans are for buying a house or a car. Other loans are for small things you need right away. If you borrow money for a house, the house is like a promise that you will pay back the loan. If you do not pay back, the lender can take the house.
Jellyfish\n\nA jellyfish is a soft sea animal that lives in the ocean. Its body is shaped like a bell and is mostly water. Jellyfish have long, stinging arms called tentacles that hang down from their body. They use these tentacles to catch tiny animals like plankton and small fish. Jellyfish float in the water and move by squeezing their body, but they mostly drift with the current. Some jellyfish are very small, and some are big. The biggest jellyfish is the Lion's mane, with tentacles as long as a bus. Some jellyfish glow in the dark. Many animals eat jellyfish, like sea turtles and fish. People also eat jellyfish, especially in Asia. A group of jellyfish is called a bloom.
Transport\n\nTransport is moving people or things from one place to another. There are roads for cars and trucks, railways for trains, and airports for airplanes. Boats and ships travel on water. Some vehicles use electricity, like trains and trams. Others use gas or oil, which can make the air dirty. People build roads, train stations, and airports to help transport work.
Abraham\n\nAbraham is a man from the Bible and the Qur'an. He is the father of the Jewish people and is very important to three big religions: Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. Abraham had a son named Isaac with his wife Sarah. He also had a son named Ishmael with Sarah's helper Hagar. God told Abraham to leave his home and go to a new land called Canaan. God promised that Abraham would be the father of a great family. When Abraham was very old, God told him to take his son Isaac up a mountain. Abraham was ready to do what God said, but an angel stopped him. Instead, Abraham gave a sheep to God. Abraham lived to be 175 years old. His sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in a cave.
Cognition\n\nCognition is a big word for how your brain works. It is how you think, remember things, and learn new stuff. When you see a dog and know it is a dog, that is cognition. When you remember your favorite toy, that is cognition too. Your brain uses your eyes, ears, and other senses to learn about the world. Thinking, solving puzzles, and making choices are all part of cognition. A man named Jean Piaget studied how children's brains grow and learn as they get older.
Mosque\n\nA mosque is a special building where Muslim people go to pray and learn about their religion. Muslims wash their hands and feet before they go inside to pray. Inside, there are no chairs or tables, just soft rugs on the floor. People sit on the rugs and bow to pray. Many mosques have tall towers called minarets. A person called a muezzin calls out from the minaret to tell everyone it is time to pray. Mosques often have big round roofs called domes. The walls may have pretty patterns and writing, but no pictures of people or animals. Some mosques have a courtyard with a fountain for washing. Mosques are found all over the world, even in cold places.
Hormone\n\nHormones are tiny messengers inside your body. They travel in your blood to tell different parts of your body what to do. Hormones help you grow, help you feel hungry or full, and help your body stay just right. Special groups of cells called glands make hormones. For example, when you eat sugar, a gland called the pancreas sends out a hormone called insulin. Insulin tells your body to use the sugar for energy. Hormones also help babies be born. They make a mother's belly squeeze until the baby comes out. Your body is very smart at keeping just the right amount of each hormone.
Indus River\n\nThe Indus River is a very long river in Asia. It flows through Tibet, Kashmir, and Pakistan. The river is 3,180 kilometers long, which is very, very long. It is the longest river in Pakistan and a special symbol for the country. The Indus starts high up in the mountains in Tibet. It runs fast down the mountains and picks up water from many icy streams. The river goes between two big mountain ranges called the Karakoram and the Himalayas. In Pakistan, the first town on the river is Skardu, which is very high up in the mountains. People live in Skardu and in small villages along the river. The Indus gives water to farms in Pakistan because there is not much rain there. Without the Indus, it would be very hard to grow food. Many other rivers flow into the Indus, like the Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Beas, and Sutlej. The name "India" comes from the word "Indus."
Ginger\n\nGinger is a plant that grows from a root. People use the root as a spice in food. The plant has tall green stems and narrow leaves. It has yellow or white flowers that grow from the root. Ginger tastes a little spicy and warm. People cook with ginger in many countries. It first came from China and then spread to other warm places. Some people have hair that is the color of ginger, which is a red-brown color.
Industrial Revolution\n\nThe Industrial Revolution is the name of a time long ago when people started making things with machines instead of by hand. Before, people made things one at a time in small shops. Then, big factories with machines could make many things quickly and cheaply. This started in England around the 1760s. Many people moved from farms to towns to work in factories. The steam engine was a very important machine that helped run the factories and trains. People burned coal to make the steam engines work. Life changed a lot. Some people became rich, but many workers, including children, had to work very long hours for little money. Families often lived in small, crowded rooms. New inventions also helped make things like cloth and metal faster. The Industrial Revolution spread to other countries like America. It changed how people lived and worked.
Chain mail\n\nChain mail is a kind of armor made from many small metal rings linked together. It looks like a shirt made of metal. Long ago, soldiers wore chain mail to protect their bodies in battle. The rings are strong and can stop cuts from swords or knives. Chain mail is heavy, so it is hard to move around in it. Today, some people still wear chain mail. Butchers and firefighters wear chain mail gloves to keep their hands safe from sharp things. Some divers wear chain mail suits when they swim near sharks. People who dress up like old-time soldiers also wear chain mail for fun.
Light\n\nLight is what helps us see things. It comes from the sun, stars, and lamps. Light makes the daytime bright. When light hits something, it bounces off, and our eyes see that. Different colors of light have different sizes of waves. Red has the biggest waves, and purple has the smallest. Rainbows are made when light bends in raindrops. Light travels very fast, faster than anything else. It moves in a straight line. When something blocks light, it makes a shadow. Some things let light pass through, like glass. Other things block light, like a wall. Light also keeps the Earth warm.
Appalachian Mountains\n\nThe Appalachian Mountains are a big group of mountains in North America. They are mostly in the United States but also in Canada. The mountains are very old and have been worn down by wind and rain over a long, long time. They are not very tall, but they are wide and stretch from Canada down to Alabama. The mountains make it hard to travel from east to west because you have to go up and down many hills. A long walking path called the Appalachian Trail goes through the mountains for more than 2,000 miles. Many people like to hike and camp there.
College\n\nA college is a school where people go to learn after they finish high school. Most people start college when they are 18 years old, but anyone can go at any age. In college, students take classes in many subjects like math, science, and reading. They also pick one special subject to learn a lot about, like animals or numbers. When they finish all their classes, they get a degree. Some people use their degree to get a job, and some go back to college to learn even more.
Seaweed\n\nSeaweed is a plant that lives in the ocean. It can be red, green, or brown. Seaweed needs sunlight and salt water to grow. It often grows near the shore on rocks. Some seaweed floats on the water. People eat seaweed in many countries. It is used in soups, sushi, and noodles. Seaweed is also in toothpaste and some paints.
Tropics\n\nThe tropics are the part of the Earth that is near the middle, where it is very warm. The sun shines right overhead there at least once each year. In the tropics, the weather is usually hot and wet. Many big forests with lots of trees and animals live there. Some places in the tropics have a dry season and a rainy season. Big storms called tropical cyclones can start in the warm ocean water there.
Satan\n\nSatan is a name for a bad spirit in some religions. Many people believe Satan tries to make people do wrong things. In the Christian Bible, Satan was once an angel named Lucifer who thought he was as strong as God and was sent away from heaven. In the Quran, Satan is called Iblis and was made from fire. Some people think Satan is not a real person but just a way to talk about the bad feelings inside people.
Tillage\n\nTillage is when people break up the dirt in a field. A big machine called a tractor pulls a tool that digs into the ground. Sometimes a horse or a person pulls the tool instead. This lets air and sunshine get into the soil, which helps plants grow. But if people do it too much, the dirt can get tired and not grow plants well.
Discrimination\n\nDiscrimination is when someone is treated badly or differently just because of who they are. It can happen because of the color of their skin, how old they are, if they are a boy or a girl, what they believe, or how they look. It is not fair to treat someone differently for these reasons. Many places have rules that say people should be treated the same and get the same pay for the same work. But sometimes, even with rules, discrimination still happens.
Battle\n\nA battle is a big fight between two groups of people. Each group tries to beat the other group. Battles happen during wars. A small battle is called a skirmish. The place where a battle happens is called a battlefield. Some battles are very important and can change history.
Music industry\n\nThe music industry is all the people and companies that make money from songs. They write songs, sing them, record them, and sell them. When you hear a song on the radio or buy it online, that is part of the music industry. Some people in the music industry are singers, songwriters, and people who help make the music sound good.
Bay\n\nA bay is a part of the sea or a lake that goes into the land. It is like a big curve of water between two pieces of land that stick out. The water in a bay is usually calm, and there is often a sandy beach where you can play. Some bays are very small, and some are so big they are called gulfs. Bays are made when soft rock wears away and hard rock stays, making the land shape.
Terracotta Army\n\nThe Terracotta Army is a big group of clay soldiers that were buried underground a long, long time ago. An old Chinese king named Qin Shi Huang had them made to protect him after he died. The soldiers are made of clay and are as tall as a grown-up. Each one looks different — some have bows, some have swords, and some have spears. They were found by farmers digging for water. Many of them are still buried in the ground.
Addition\n\nAddition is when you put numbers together to make a bigger number. The plus sign (+) means you add. For example, if you have 3 apples and 2 more apples, you put them together and get 5 apples. That is called the sum. You can add numbers in any order and still get the same answer. Adding zero does not change a number. When you add big numbers, you add the ones first, then the tens, then the hundreds, and so on.
Contemporary art\n\nContemporary art is art that people make right now. It can be paintings, sculptures, or even things like big shapes and bright colors. Some art looks like real things, and some art looks like funny shapes or splashes of paint. Artists use many different ideas to make their art. You can see contemporary art in museums and galleries.
Spruce\n\nA spruce is a kind of tree that stays green all year. It has pointy needles that grow one by one around the branches. Spruce trees are very tall and look like a cone. They live in cold places far north. The needles fall off after many years. Baby spruce trees have a hard time growing because they can get hurt by cold weather and snow.
Deforestation\n\nDeforestation is when people cut down or burn many trees in a forest. They do this to make room for farms, houses, and roads. When trees are gone, animals that live in the forest lose their homes and may die. Trees help keep the air clean, so cutting them down makes the Earth warmer. People can help by planting new trees where old ones were cut.
0\n\nZero is a special number. It means there is nothing at all. If you have zero toys, you have no toys. The symbol for zero is "0". When you add zero to a number, that number stays the same. For example, 3 plus 0 is still 3. People use zero when they count down to a race: "three, two, one, zero, go!" Zero is the start time. Long ago, some people did not know about zero, which made math harder. Now we use zero every day.
Papyrus\n\nPapyrus is a kind of paper that people used long ago in Ancient Egypt. They made it from a tall plant that grows near the Nile river. The plant is called papyrus too. People cut the plant and pressed it flat to make sheets for writing. They also used the plant to make boats, mats, rope, sandals, and baskets. Later, people in other places near the sea also used papyrus.
Tropical cyclone\n\nA tropical cyclone is a big, spinning storm that starts over warm ocean water near the middle of the Earth. It has very fast winds and lots of rain. The center of the storm is called the eye, and it is calm with little wind or rain. Around the eye is the eye wall, where the wind is fastest and rain is heaviest. These storms can be dangerous when they move over land. They can knock down trees, break houses, and cause floods. In different parts of the world, tropical cyclones have different names. In the Atlantic Ocean, they are called hurricanes. In the western Pacific Ocean, they are called typhoons. In the Indian Ocean and South Pacific, they are just called cyclones. People give these storms names to help keep track of them. The names are chosen by a group of weather experts. Sometimes these storms hurt people and break things, so it is important to be safe when one is coming.
Afghanistan\n\nAfghanistan is a country in Asia. It has many big mountains called the Hindu Kush. The capital city is Kabul. Many people live in small villages and some move around with their animals. The country has hot summers and cold winters. Wild animals like wolves, foxes, bears, and snow leopards live in the mountains. People in Afghanistan speak Dari and Pashto. Most people follow the religion of Islam.
Lagoon\n\nA lagoon is a pool of salt water that is partly cut off from the big ocean. Something like a sandy beach or a coral reef keeps the lagoon safe from big waves. Some lagoons are near the shore, and some are inside a ring of coral called an atoll. The water in a lagoon is usually calm and warm.
Yellow Emperor\n\nThe Yellow Emperor is a famous king from long ago in China. People tell stories about him, but no one knows if he was a real person. He is called the Yellow Emperor because of his name. Many Chinese people think he was the first father of all Han Chinese people. He lived a very, very long time ago, even before your great-great-grandparents were born. Some people in China still remember him and tell stories about his adventures.
Buckwheat\n\nBuckwheat is a plant with small seeds that people can eat like cereal. The seeds have three sides and look like tiny beech tree seeds. Buckwheat is not a real grass like wheat. It is a cousin of rhubarb and sorrel. People use buckwheat seeds to make pancakes, noodles, and porridge. The seeds are good for you and give you energy.
Cannon\n\nA cannon is a very big gun. It has a long tube called a barrel. Long ago, people in China made the first cannons. They put gunpowder in the back of the tube and a heavy ball in the front. When the gunpowder caught fire, it pushed the ball out very fast. Cannons were used in wars to shoot at enemies far away. Today, big cannons are on ships and tanks.
Buddhism\n\nBuddhism is a way of life that started a long time ago in India. It comes from a man named Siddhartha Gautama, who is called the Buddha, which means "the one who woke up." The Buddha taught people how to be happy and stop feeling sad. He said that all living things feel pain when they are born, get sick, grow old, or die. He showed people how to let go of wanting too much, being angry, and being confused. Buddhists try to be kind and not hurt others. They sit quietly to think and calm their minds. Many people around the world follow Buddhism.
Electromagnet\n\nAn electromagnet is a special kind of magnet that only works when electricity flows through a wire. The wire is wrapped around a piece of iron, like a nail. When you turn on the electricity, the electromagnet can pick up metal things like paperclips or nails. When you turn off the electricity, it stops being a magnet. You can make it stronger by adding more wire loops or using a bigger battery. Electromagnets are used in doorbells, motors, and big machines that lift heavy metal.
Inclined plane\n\nAn inclined plane is a flat surface that is slanted, like a ramp. It helps you move things up or down without having to lift them straight up. You use less force to push or pull something on a ramp. Ramps, hills, and slides are all inclined planes. Even a knife has two inclined planes back to back, which helps it cut things.
Mustelid\n\nMustelids are a big family of animals that eat meat. They come in many sizes. Some are small like weasels that catch mice. Some are big and strong like wolverines that can catch animals much bigger than themselves. Mustelids live in many places. Otters live in the water. One kind of weasel lives in the cold Arctic. A mustelid called the ferret has been tamed. Long ago people used ferrets for hunting. Now people keep them as pets. A ferret looks like a long skinny rat, so some people call it a tube rat.
Heat transfer\n\nHeat transfer is how heat moves from one thing to another. Heat always moves from something hot to something cold. For example, when you touch a warm cup, the heat moves from the cup to your hand. Heat can move through solid things, like a metal spoon. It can also move through air or water. Sometimes heat moves through empty space, like the heat from the sun that warms your face.
Gulf of Mexico\n\nThe Gulf of Mexico is a big body of water next to the United States, Mexico, and Cuba. It is part of the Atlantic Ocean. The water in the Gulf is warm, and many fish live there. People catch fish for food. There is also oil under the water. Hurricanes sometimes come to the Gulf and make big waves. In 2025, the United States started calling it the Gulf of America, but other countries still call it the Gulf of Mexico.
Venus (mythology)\n\nVenus is a goddess from old Roman stories. She is the goddess of love and beauty. People in ancient times built temples for her and had special days to celebrate her. She was married to Vulcan, the god of fire and volcanoes. Some important people, like Julius Caesar, said Venus was part of their family.
Courage\n\nCourage is when you do something even if you are scared. It means being brave. A person shows courage when they help someone else, even if it is a little bit scary. For example, saving a baby from a fire takes a lot of courage. Courage is the opposite of being afraid.
Perception\n\nPerception is how your body takes in things around you and your brain figures out what they are. You have five ways to perceive: seeing with your eyes, hearing with your ears, touching with your skin, tasting with your tongue, and smelling with your nose. When light goes into your eyes, your brain makes a picture. When sound waves go into your ears, your brain makes what you hear. Your skin feels if something is hot, cold, or hard. Your tongue tastes if food is sweet or sour. Your nose smells flowers or food. Your brain uses what you already know to help you understand things fast. For example, if you see half of a cat, you know it is a cat because you have seen one before.
Rock art\n\nRock art is pictures or marks that people made on big stones a long, long time ago. Some rock art is carved into the stone, and some is painted on it. You can find rock art on cave walls or on rocks outside. People used sharp tools or colored paint to make these pictures. The pictures can show animals, people, or shapes. Some rock art is very old and helps us learn about how people lived long ago.
Mind\n\nThe mind is the part of you that thinks, remembers, and feels. It is inside your head. Your mind helps you make choices, like what to eat or play. It also lets you imagine things, like a castle in the sky. You can keep memories in your mind, like your birthday party. Your mind is private — no one else knows what you are thinking. Sometimes people say "make up your mind" when you need to decide. A healthy mind helps you feel happy and handle problems.
Peat\n\nPeat is a soft, wet, brown stuff that comes from old plants. It forms in wet, swampy places called bogs. The plants in the bog do not rot all the way because there is no air. Peat is like the first step to making coal. People in some countries, like Ireland and Scotland, dig up peat and dry it. Then they burn it for heat and cooking. It makes a smoky smell. Peat is also used to make a special drink called Scotch whisky taste smoky. But peat can be dangerous because it can catch fire and burn for a very long time, even under the ground.
Hatred\n\nHatred is a very strong feeling of not liking someone or something. It makes you want to stay away from that person or thing. Some people think hatred is the opposite of love. When you feel hatred, you might feel angry or mean. It is not a nice feeling to have.
Handicraft\n\nHandicraft is when people make things with their hands and simple tools. These things are pretty and can be used for something. Handicraft is not made by big machines. In Bangladesh, some people make handicraft things to earn money. Making handicraft helps people think of new ideas and be creative. It also helps keep old traditions alive.
Wallet\n\nA wallet is a small flat thing that people use to hold money and cards. It can be made of leather or cloth. Men often keep a wallet in their pocket. Women often put a wallet inside a bigger bag called a purse. Some wallets have a special place for coins. A wallet can close with a snap or a band.
Engraving\n\nEngraving is a way to make a picture or pattern by cutting into a hard, flat surface. People use a special tool called a burin to carve lines into metal like copper or silver. Long ago, before cameras were invented, engraving was used to make pictures for books and newspapers. Today, engraving is still used to make money and stamps because the tiny lines are very hard to copy. Some artists also use engraving to make beautiful prints on paper.
Slime mould\n\nA slime mould is a living thing that lives on the ground in forests. It looks like a yellow or orange blob and slides slowly over leaves and tree trunks to find food. It can be just one tiny cell, or many cells that come together to make a bigger blob. When it is time to make new slime moulds, it grows little stalks that hold tiny seeds called spores. The spores float away and grow into new slime moulds. Slime moulds are not plants or animals, but they are alive and move very slowly.
Solar energy\n\nSolar energy comes from the sun. The sun gives us heat and light. People use the sun's heat to cook food, warm water, and make electricity. Solar cookers use mirrors to focus sunlight and get very hot. Solar panels on roofs catch sunlight and turn it into electricity for lights and TVs. Solar energy is always there, so we can use it again and again. It is better for the Earth than burning coal or oil.
Social equality\n\nSocial equality is when all people are treated the same and get the same chances. No one is left out because of how they look or where they come from. Everyone can go to school, play, and have friends. It means being fair to everyone.
Pop music\n\nPop music is a kind of music that many people like to listen to. It has a strong beat that is good for dancing. Pop music started a long time ago, around the 1950s, with rock and roll. Famous singers like Elvis Presley and The Beatles made pop music popular. Today, pop music includes many styles like rock, hip hop, and electronic dance music. Pop singers sing into microphones that make their voices louder. Many people work behind the scenes to make pop music, like people who help record songs, sell CDs, and set up concerts. Some pop stars you might know are Ariana Grande, Katy Perry, and Lady Gaga.
Martial arts\n\nMartial arts are ways of fighting that people learn and practice. They come from many different countries. People do martial arts to protect themselves, to get stronger, to stay healthy, and to have fun. Some martial arts use punches, like boxing. Some use kicks, like taekwondo. Some use holds and throws, like judo. Some use swords or sticks. There are many kinds of martial arts, and each one has its own moves. People who practice martial arts train hard and learn to be brave and calm.
Quebec\n\nQuebec is a big part of Canada. It is the largest province in Canada by size. Many people live in Quebec, but not as many as in Ontario. Most people in Quebec live near the Saint Lawrence River. The people in Quebec speak French. That is different from most of Canada, where people speak English. The capital city of Quebec is Quebec City. It is one of the oldest cities in North America. The biggest city in Quebec is Montreal. It is the second biggest city in Canada. Quebec has many trees, water, and rocks that people use to make things. Some people in Quebec want to leave Canada and become their own country. They had two votes about it, in 1980 and 1995. In 1995, almost half the people wanted to leave, but more people wanted to stay.
Gaborone\n\nGaborone is a big city in Africa. It is the capital of a country called Botswana. Many people live there, and the city is growing very fast. Gaborone sits next to a river called the Notwane. It is close to the border of South Africa. There is a big university in Gaborone, and an airport where planes come and go. Long ago, the city was called Gaberones. It was named after a chief named Gaborone. People sometimes call it "Gabs" or "G-City" for short. The city was built in just three years, with houses, schools, a hospital, and a power station. Botswana became its own country in 1966, and Gaborone was ready for that big day.
Acropolis of Athens\n\nThe Acropolis of Athens is a big hill in the middle of a city called Athens. On top of the hill, there are old stone buildings that people made a long, long time ago. The most famous building there is called the Parthenon. Many people visit the Acropolis to see the old buildings and look at the city from up high.
Camping\n\nCamping is when people leave their home and sleep outside for one or more nights. They sleep in a tent, a campervan, or right under the sky when the weather is nice. People go camping in summer when school is out. They like to see nature and have adventures. Campers make easy food to eat. Sometimes they cook fish or meat over a fire. Camping can be fun, but you have to be careful of wild animals and only drink clean water.
Ancient philosophy\n\nAncient philosophy is about very old ideas from long ago. People in China, Greece, Rome, India, and other places thought about big questions like 'What is good?' and 'How should we live?' These ideas were written down and some are still studied today in schools. Many of these old thoughts were forgotten for a while, but later people learned about them again from books.
Lake Malawi\n\nLake Malawi is a very big lake in Africa. It sits between three countries: Malawi, Mozambique, and Tanzania. It is one of the deepest lakes in Africa and the ninth biggest lake in the whole world. Many fish live in this lake.
Fog\n\nFog is a cloud that sits on the ground. It is made of tiny water drops in the air. Fog can be on land or over the sea. When it is foggy, you cannot see very far. Fog happens when the air gets cold and wet. Sometimes fog is very thick, and sometimes it is thin. Fog can look like a soft white blanket.
Society\n\nSociety is all the people living together and helping each other. People in a society talk, play, and work together. They make rules so everyone can be safe and happy. Some animals, like wolves, also live in a society. A society can be a town, a country, or even the whole world.
Robotics\n\nRobotics is about making robots. A robot is a machine that can do jobs for people. Some robots help find and take away bombs. Other robots go to very hot or very small places where people cannot go. Some robots look like people, but most look like machines. Some robots can move on their own, and some need a person to tell them what to do. People who work on robotics learn about machines, electricity, and computers.
Root\n\nRoots are the part of a plant that usually stay under the ground. They take water and food from the soil for the plant. Roots also hold the plant tight in the ground so it does not fall over. Some roots, like carrots, are thick and we can eat them. Other roots are thin and spread out like a web. Roots grow longer from the tip, and the tip has a hard cap that pushes through the dirt. Some plants have roots that grow above the ground, like on trees in the rainforest. These are called aerial roots. Roots are not green because they do not have the green stuff that leaves have.
Samba\n\nSamba is a kind of music, dancing, and singing from Brazil. People dance samba with fast, happy steps. There are two main types: the ballroom samba danced with a partner, and the traditional samba danced alone at Carnival. The dance has a bouncing move made by bending and straightening the knees. The music uses drums, bells, and a whistle. The whistle tells dancers when to start and stop. Samba started in Brazil in the 1920s and is now danced all over the world.
Nurse\n\nA nurse is a person who helps sick or hurt people get better. Nurses work with doctors to take care of patients. They work in hospitals, at doctor's offices, and even visit people at home. Nurses talk to patients, give them medicine, and watch to make sure they are okay. Some nurses help during surgery. Some nurses teach people about healthy food and how to stay well. Nurses train for a long time to learn how to help. Both men and women can be nurses. Many people need nurses, so nurses are very important.
Kitchen\n\nA kitchen is a room in a house where people cook food. Sometimes people eat in the kitchen, too. Kitchens have a stove for cooking, a sink with water, and a refrigerator to keep food cold. Long ago, kitchens had open fires and were separate from the rest of the house. Today, many kitchens are part of the living room. Some kitchens are outside for cooking on a grill. People use knives, pots, and pans to make meals. A person who works in a kitchen is called a chef or a cook.
Realism\n\nRealism is a way of making art or thinking about things that tries to show the world just as it really is. Artists who use realism paint or write about everyday life, like people working or playing, without adding magic or make-believe. Realism started a long time ago, in the 1800s, when some artists wanted to show nature and regular people instead of just kings or fairy tales. In philosophy, realism means that things are real even if nobody is looking at them or thinking about them. For example, a rock is still a rock even if you close your eyes.
Mole\n\nA mole is a small animal that lives under the ground. It digs tunnels with its strong front paws. Moles have very soft fur and an extra thumb to help them dig. They eat bugs, worms, and other tiny creatures. Moles live in North America, Europe, and Asia. They cannot see very well. Some moles are very small, and some are a little bigger.
Guatemala\n\nGuatemala is a country in Central America. It is next to Mexico, Belize, Honduras, and El Salvador. It also touches the Pacific Ocean. Many people live there—more than fourteen million. Some people are Mayan, some are mixed, and some came from Europe long ago. The capital is Guatemala City. Long ago, the capital had to move because a volcano erupted and because of big earthquakes.
Mathematics\n\nMathematics is about numbers, shapes, and patterns. It helps us count, add, and take away. People use math to solve problems in real life, like building houses or making things. Mathematicians use thinking and rules to find answers. Some math problems are adding, subtracting, multiplying, and dividing. Math helps us understand the world better.
Elasticity (physics)\n\nElasticity is when something can be stretched or squished and then go back to its first shape. A rubber band is a good example. When you pull it, it gets longer, and when you let go, it goes back to how it was. Some things, like clay, can be squished but stay that way. That is not elastic. Elastic things try hard to go back to their old shape.
Etymology\n\nEtymology is learning where words come from. It tells us how a word started and what it used to mean. For example, the word 'etymology' came from old Greek words that mean 'true word' or 'true meaning'. Some words come from other languages like Latin or French. Knowing etymology helps us understand why we say things the way we do.
Candy\n\nCandy is a sweet food that people like to eat. It is made from sugar and water, with flavors added. You can find candy in almost any store. Some people make candy at home. Candy comes in many shapes, colors, and sizes. It has a lot of sugar, so it is not very healthy, but you can eat it sometimes. Some candy is sweet, and some candy can be spicy. Many companies make candy, like Hershey and Haribo.
Sea of Japan\n\nThe Sea of Japan is a big body of salt water next to Japan, Korea, and Russia. It is part of the Pacific Ocean. The water is very deep in some places. Many fish live there. People in different countries call it different names. Some call it the East Sea.
Aquarium\n\nAn aquarium is a place where fish and other water animals live. It can be a small glass box in your home or a big building with many tanks. People like to watch the fish swim around. Some people keep an aquarium as a hobby. They give the fish clean water, light, and food. Big public aquariums have large tanks with many kinds of fish. People visit them to see the fish and learn about them. Some aquariums help protect animals that are in danger of disappearing.
Opossum\n\nAn opossum is a small animal that carries its babies in a pouch on its belly. It is a marsupial, like a kangaroo. Opossums live in North and South America. They have a long pointy nose, a hairless tail, and gray or white fur. Opossums eat many things: bugs, worms, small animals, plants, and even garbage. Some people think opossums eat lots of ticks, but scientists now say that is not true. Baby opossums are born very tiny and must crawl into their mother's pouch to drink milk and grow big.
Tendon\n\nA tendon is a strong, stretchy band inside your body. It connects muscle to bone. When you move, your muscle pulls on the tendon, and the tendon pulls on the bone to make it move. Tendons are tough and do not stretch very much. They help your arms and legs bend and straighten.
Gulf of Thailand\n\nThe Gulf of Thailand is a big, shallow arm of the sea. It touches three countries: Cambodia, Thailand, and Vietnam. The water is warm and not very deep, only about as deep as a tall building. Many rivers pour fresh water into the gulf, making it less salty. There are pretty coral reefs under the water, and people like to visit the beaches and islands there. Some famous places in the Gulf of Thailand are Ko Samui, Pattaya, and Hua Hin.
Scissors\n\nScissors are a tool for cutting things like paper and cloth. They have two sharp edges that move together to cut. Some scissors are not very sharp and are safe for children to use. These are called safety scissors. Scissors can be made for left-handed or right-handed people. There are many kinds of scissors for cutting different things.
Rotation\n\nRotation is when something moves around and around in a circle. A toy top spins around a point in the middle. The Earth spins around like a ball, and that is called rotation. You can spin a ball on your finger. Some things spin to the right, and some spin to the left. Big wheels at a park, like a Ferris wheel, also spin around. In sports, players make balls spin when they hit them.
Missouri River\n\nThe Missouri River is a very long river in the United States. It is the longest river in North America. The river starts high up in the Rocky Mountains in Montana. It flows east and then south through many states like North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa, Nebraska, Missouri, and Kansas. Finally, it joins the Mississippi River near Saint Louis. The Missouri River is sometimes called "Big Muddy" because it carries a lot of dirt and makes the water look muddy. Long ago, Native American people lived near this river. Later, explorers named Lewis and Clark traveled on the Missouri River to learn about the land.
Refraction\n\nRefraction is when light bends as it moves from one thing to another, like from air into water. When you put a straw in a glass of water, the straw looks like it bends at the water's top. That is because the light slows down and changes direction when it goes into the water. Light also bends when it goes through a prism, and then it splits into all the colors of the rainbow.
Biology\n\nBiology is the science that studies life and living things. Living things include animals, plants, mushrooms, and tiny living things like bacteria. People who study biology are called biologists. They look at how animals and plants behave and work. Biologists also study how living things react with each other and the world around them. All living things are made of tiny building blocks called cells. Cells are like little rooms that make up your body. Water is very important for life. Most of your body is made of water. Living things also need food to grow and have energy. Biology helps us understand how our bodies work and how plants grow.
Sierra Leone\n\nSierra Leone is a country in West Africa. Its capital is Freetown. The country was first made as a place where freed slaves could live. There was a war there from 1991 to 2000, but now the war is over. Sierra Leone has many diamonds, but some were used to buy weapons during the war. The country is hot and rainy most of the year. It has a rainy season from May to November and a dry season from December to May. Many people in Sierra Leone eat rice with every meal. They also like snacks like mangoes, oranges, and fried plantains. Football is the most popular sport. The national team is called the Leone Stars.
Map projection\n\nA map projection is a way to draw the round Earth on a flat piece of paper. The Earth is like a ball, and paper is flat, so drawing it is hard. When you try to make a round thing flat, some parts get stretched or squished. That is called distortion. People who make maps choose different ways to draw the Earth so that the important parts look right. One way to think about it is like shining a light on a ball and seeing its shadow on a wall. The shadow is flat, just like a map.
Poultry\n\nPoultry are birds that people keep on farms. These birds give us eggs to eat and meat to cook. Chickens are the most common poultry. Turkeys and ducks are poultry too. People also use their soft feathers for pillows. Poultry live in coops or barns and eat grain. The meat from poultry is a food that many people around the world like to eat.
Nelumbo\n\nNelumbo is a water plant also called lotus. Lotus flowers are big and smell sweet. Some lotus flowers are pink, and some are yellow. The flowers grow above the water. The leaves float on top of the water. The roots are in the mud under the water. The stems and roots have air spaces so the plant can breathe underwater. People can eat the roots and seeds. Cows like to eat the leaves and flowers. Lotus is the national flower of India and Vietnam.
Vishnu\n\nVishnu is a very important god in the Hindu religion. He is the god who takes care of the world and keeps it safe. People say he protects everything that lives. Vishnu has four hands. In his hands he holds a conch shell, a round disc, a mace, and a flower called a lotus. Sometimes he comes to Earth in different forms called avataras. Two famous avataras are Rama and Krishna. Many people pray to Vishnu and visit his temples.
Mineral\n\nA mineral is a special kind of stuff that comes from the ground. It is made by nature, not by people. Minerals are solid, like a rock, and they have a special shape inside. Some minerals are very common, like quartz and feldspar. Others are rare and found only in a few places. People use minerals every day. The salt you eat is a mineral called halite. The copper in wires that bring electricity to your house comes from a mineral. Even the powder in baby powder is made from a mineral called talc. Rocks are made of minerals, but a rock can have many different minerals mixed together.
Slalom skiing\n\nSlalom skiing is a race down a snowy hill. Skiers go between poles called gates. The gates are close together, so skiers make quick turns. It is part of the Winter Olympics. Skiers wear special skis that are shorter for slalom. The fastest skier wins.
Detroit\n\nDetroit is a big city in the state of Michigan, in the United States. It is called the "Motor City" because many cars are made there. Companies like Ford, General Motors, and Chrysler have their offices and factories in and around Detroit. The city was started by a man from France in 1701. Detroit has many sports teams, like the Detroit Tigers for baseball and the Detroit Lions for football. Many people live in Detroit and the towns around it. The city is next to Canada, and the border between Detroit and Windsor is one of the busiest in the world.
Dye\n\nDye is something that puts color on things. People use dye to color cloth for making clothes. Some dye comes from plants like berries and leaves. That is called natural dye. Other dye is made by people in factories. That is called artificial dye. Dye sticks to the cloth and makes it a new color.
Levee\n\nA levee is a big wall of dirt or stone built next to a river. It helps keep water from flooding houses and roads when the river gets too full. Some levees are made by people, and some are natural hills. Long ago, people in Holland built levees to keep the sea out. The land behind a levee can be safe and dry. But sometimes, the river bed gets higher over time, and then the levee might not be tall enough.
Guitar\n\nA guitar is a thing you play music with. It has a long neck and a big body. You use your fingers to pull on the strings to make sounds. Most guitars have six strings. Some are made of wood or plastic. The strings can be made of steel or nylon. There are two main kinds: acoustic and electric. An acoustic guitar makes its own sound. An electric guitar needs a plug to make the sound louder. People use guitars in many kinds of music, like rock and classical. A person who plays a guitar is called a guitarist.
Halloween\n\nHalloween is a fun night on October 31. Children wear costumes and go to houses saying "Trick or treat!" People give them candy. Many children dress up as ghosts, witches, or other fun scary things. People also carve pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns with a light inside. Some homes have decorations like pumpkins and scarecrows. Halloween started a long time ago in Ireland. People believed that on this night, the souls of dead people could come back to Earth. Now it is a happy holiday with games like bobbing for apples. Black and orange are the colors of Halloween.
J-pop\n\nJ-pop is music that many people in Japan like to listen to. J-pop is a short name for Japanese pop music. It sounds different from music in other countries. Some J-pop songs are fast and fun, and some are slow and pretty. People in Japan listen to J-pop on the radio, on TV, and on their phones. Many singers and bands make J-pop songs. Some J-pop singers are young, and some are older. The music has changed over time, so new J-pop sounds different from old J-pop.
Cymbal\n\nA cymbal is a round metal disc that makes a crashing sound. It looks a little like a pot lid. You can hold one in each hand and bang them together to make a loud noise. You can also hit one cymbal with a stick. Cymbals come in different sizes. Some are small, some are big. They are used in bands, orchestras, and drum sets. When you hear a big crash in music, that is often a cymbal.
Chinese calendar\n\nThe Chinese calendar is a special way to keep track of days and months. It uses the moon and the sun to tell time. Long ago, people in China used this calendar for everything. Now, people in China use a different calendar for most things, but they still use the Chinese calendar for fun holidays like Chinese New Year and the Mid-Autumn Festival.
Integer\n\nAn integer is a whole number. Whole numbers are numbers like 1, 2, 3, and also zero and numbers like -1, -2, -3. Integers do not have parts like a half or a quarter. You can put integers on a number line. There is no biggest or smallest integer because you can always find a bigger or smaller one. When you add, subtract, or multiply two integers, you always get another integer. But when you divide one integer by another, you might not get an integer.
Cyprus\n\nCyprus is an island country in the Mediterranean Sea. It is a place with warm weather and many beaches. The capital city is Nicosia. People there speak Greek and Turkish. Many tourists visit Cyprus every year to enjoy the sun and the sea. The island has mountains and a long river. Cyprus is part of the European Union and uses the euro as money.
Drama\n\nDrama is a story that people act out on a stage or in a movie. It is about people and how they feel and talk to each other. Dramas are usually serious, not funny like a comedy. Sometimes a drama can have funny parts too. A long time ago, a man named Shakespeare wrote many dramas that people still watch today.
Rock (geology)\n\nA rock is a hard, solid thing that comes from nature. Rocks are made of tiny pieces called minerals that stick together. The outside of the Earth is made of rock, but it is often covered by dirt or water. You can find rocks in many places like the park, the beach, or the forest. Some rocks are made when hot melted rock from deep inside the Earth cools down and gets hard. Other rocks are made from layers of sand and mud that get squished together over a long time. Some rocks are changed by heat and pressure deep underground. People have used rocks for a very long time to build houses, roads, and other things.
Plateau\n\nA plateau is a big piece of land that is flat on top and high up. It looks like a table on a hill. Some plateaus are very tall, like the Tibetan Plateau, which is the biggest and tallest in the world. Other plateaus are under the ocean. Plateaus can be made by volcanoes or by the ground pushing up. They often stand alone, sometimes on top of mountains.
Pecan\n\nA pecan is a nut that grows on a big tree. The tree lives in the middle and south of the United States and in Mexico. The nut has a hard shell. You need a stone or a tool to crack it open. Inside is a yummy part that people eat. In the southern part of the United States, people make a sweet pie with pecans. It is called pecan pie.
Physical examination\n\nA physical examination is when a doctor or nurse looks at your body to see if you are healthy. They check your eyes, ears, heart, and tummy. They also listen to your breathing with a special tool. This helps find if you are sick or hurt. It is like a check-up to make sure your body is working well.
Oak\n\nAn oak is a big, strong tree that grows very slowly. It can live for a very long time, even up to 1000 years. Oak trees have leaves with round edges, and some have leaves with jagged edges. In spring, the tree makes tiny flowers. The fruit of an oak tree is a nut called an acorn. Acorns grow inside a little cup on the tree. Each acorn has one seed inside. Many animals live in an oak tree. Birds, bugs, and moths make their homes there. Caterpillars eat the leaves. Some leaves have little bumps on the bottom. Those bumps are called galls, and tiny animals live inside them. Oak wood is very hard. People used to cut down oak trees to make ships and furniture. Now the wood is rare and expensive. Oak trees grow in many places, especially in forests where they are the biggest trees.
Dumpling\n\nA dumpling is a small piece of food made from dough. Dough is a soft mixture of flour and water. Dumplings can be sweet or salty. Some dumplings have meat or vegetables inside. People cook dumplings by boiling them in water or steaming them in a basket. In Asia, people use bamboo baskets to steam dumplings. In Africa, people cook dumplings in a pot with a tight lid. When dumplings cook, they get bigger and puff up. Dumplings are yummy to eat.
Binary number\n\nA binary number is a way to write numbers using only two digits: 0 and 1. Computers use binary because electricity can be on (1) or off (0). In binary, each digit's place value is two times the last digit. For example, the binary number 101 means 1 four, 0 twos, and 1 one, which is 5 in the numbers we use every day. You can add, subtract, multiply, and divide with binary numbers just like with regular numbers.
Caecilian\n\nA caecilian is an animal that looks like a worm or a snake. It has no legs and lives underground. Its skin is smooth and usually dark, but some are colorful. Its eyes are small and covered with skin, so it can only tell light from dark. It has two little feelers on its head to help it smell. Most caecilians have lungs, but some use their skin to breathe. They live in warm, wet places in South America, Africa, and Asia. They eat bugs and worms. Some caecilians lay eggs, and the mother guards them. Other caecilians have babies that grow inside the mother. Some caecilians have poison in their skin to keep other animals away.
Personal computer\n\nA personal computer is a machine that helps people work and play. It has a screen, a keyboard, and a mouse. You can use it to write stories, draw pictures, play games, and talk to friends far away. Inside the computer there is a brain called the CPU that follows instructions. There is also memory to hold information while you use it, and a hard drive to save your work even when the computer is off. Some personal computers are big towers on a desk, and some are laptops that you can carry around.
Scale (music)\n\nA scale in music is a set of notes that go up or down in order. When the notes go from low to high, it is called an ascending scale. When they go from high to low, it is called a descending scale. The most common scales have five, six, or seven different notes. On a piano, if you start on the note C and play all the white keys up to the next C, you play the C Major scale. It sounds like "do, re, mi, fa, so, la, ti, do." There are also minor scales that sound a little different.
Locomotive\n\nA locomotive is the part of a train that makes it move. It is the first car and has a strong engine. There are different kinds of locomotives. A steam locomotive burns coal to make steam, which pushes the wheels. A diesel locomotive uses a diesel engine to make power. An electric locomotive gets power from wires above the tracks. Most trains today use diesel or electric locomotives. Some trains have motors in every car and do not need a separate locomotive.
Dress\n\nA dress is a piece of clothing that girls and women wear. It has a top part and a skirt part all in one piece. Dresses can be many colors and styles. People wear dresses to special events like weddings or dances. In summer, dresses help keep you cool. Long ago, women wore long dresses that touched the ground. Over time, dresses changed. Some had big skirts held up by hoops underneath. Others had high necklines or low necklines. Today, girls and women wear dresses for many reasons.
Carnivorous plant\n\nA carnivorous plant is a plant that eats bugs and small animals. Most of these plants catch insects, so they are also called insect-eating plants. They grow in places where the dirt does not have enough food for them, like wet, swampy ground or rocky areas. Some have leaves shaped like cups or jars that trap bugs inside. Others have sticky leaves that bugs get stuck on. The Venus flytrap has leaves that snap shut very fast when a bug touches it. These plants use the bugs for food to help them grow.
Feather\n\nFeathers are the soft things that cover birds. They keep birds warm and safe. Big feathers on wings help birds fly. Some feathers are stiff and have a hard center called a quill. Baby birds have very soft feathers called down. Down keeps them warm but cannot help them fly. Birds lose old feathers and grow new ones once a year. Feathers come in many colors. People use feathers to make pillows, blankets, and warm coats. Long ago, people used quills as pens to write.
Physical exercise\n\nPhysical exercise means moving your body to stay strong and healthy. You can run, jump, swim, or play outside. Exercise helps your heart, muscles, and bones grow strong. It also makes you feel happy and less tired. When you exercise, you build up your muscles and have more energy to play. It is good to exercise every day, even just for a little while.
Curry\n\nCurry is a kind of food with many spices. It comes from India and other countries in Asia. People make curry with different vegetables, meat, or beans. Curry can be yellow, red, or green. It is often eaten with rice or flat bread called naan. Some people like curry very hot, and some like it mild. Many people around the world eat curry for dinner.
Leek\n\nA leek is a vegetable that looks like a tall, skinny green stick. It is in the same family as onions and garlic. People cook leeks in soups and other dishes. Leeks grow best in deep holes in the ground so the sun does not hurt them. The dirt they grow in must be soft and let water move through it easily. Leeks take a long time to grow, about 100 to 120 days. They come from Europe and Asia.
Circulatory system\n\nThe circulatory system is how your body moves blood around. The heart is a pump that pushes blood through tubes called blood vessels. Some tubes, called arteries, carry blood away from the heart. Other tubes, called veins, bring blood back to the heart. Very tiny tubes called capillaries connect arteries and veins. Blood carries food and air to all parts of your body. It also takes away the stuff your body does not need. Your blood goes through your lungs to get fresh air. Then it goes to the rest of your body. The heart works all the time, even when you sleep.
Pendulum\n\nA pendulum is a weight on a string or stick that hangs from a point. When you push it to one side, it swings back and forth. It keeps swinging at the same speed. The weight does not change how fast it swings. People use pendulums in some clocks to help them keep the right time.
East Asia\n\nEast Asia is a big part of the continent Asia. It has six countries and two territories. Many, many people live there, and most of them live in China.
Perfume\n\nPerfume is a liquid that makes people, things, and rooms smell good. It is made from oils that come from plants or are made in a factory. People put perfume on their neck, wrist, and behind their knees because those spots are warm and make the smell stronger. Some perfumes are made from flowers like roses and lavender. Others are made from fruit peels like lemon and orange. A long time ago, people made perfume by mixing crushed flowers and oil. Today, we can make many different smells. Perfume has been used for thousands of years.
Mackerel\n\nMackerel is a kind of fish that lives in the sea. It has stripes on its back and a tail that splits in two. Mackerel swims very fast. Bigger fish like cod and sharks eat mackerel. People can eat mackerel too. It has special oil that is good for your body. But mackerel goes bad quickly, so you must eat it the same day it is caught or keep it cold.
Mandarin Chinese\n\nMandarin Chinese is a language that many people use to talk and write. It is the main language of schools and government in China and Taiwan. More than 800 million people around the world speak Mandarin. That is more than any other language. Mandarin is written with special pictures called characters. Each character stands for one idea. Some characters started as simple drawings of things like the sun or a tree. People learn Mandarin in school so they can talk to others from different parts of China. Mandarin is also one of the six languages used at the United Nations.
United Kingdom\n\nThe United Kingdom is a country in Europe. It is made up of four parts: England, Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland. The big city called London is the capital. The UK has a king. Many people live there and speak English. The flag is called the Union Jack. It has red, white, and blue colors. The UK is near the ocean and has many green hills and old castles.
Miami\n\nMiami is a big city in Florida, a state in the United States. It is warm and sunny there most of the year. Many people visit Miami for fun and to see the beaches. The city has lots of people from Cuba, Puerto Rico, and Haiti. They speak Spanish and English. Miami is called "The Magic City" because it grew very fast. There are many tall buildings, hotels, and sports teams. The Miami Heat play basketball, and the Miami Dolphins play football. Many kids go to school in Miami.
Date palm\n\nA date palm is a tall tree that grows in hot, dry places. It has a long trunk and big leaves that look like feathers. The leaves have sharp points on them. The tree grows sweet fruit called dates. People have grown date palms for a very long time to eat the fruit. The dates are brown and sticky and taste very sweet.
Pheasant\n\nA pheasant is a big bird. The boy pheasant is bigger and has bright feathers and a long tail. The girl pheasant is smaller and has plain feathers. Pheasants live in many parts of the world. People sometimes hunt them for food. Some kinds of pheasants are in danger because of hunting.
Past\n\nThe past is everything that has already happened. It is not happening now, and it is not going to happen later. Things that have not happened yet are called the future. People who study the past and try to understand why things happened are called historians. Some books and movies tell made-up stories about the past, and those are called historical fiction. Other stories are about traveling back to the past in a time machine.
Chemical reaction\n\nA chemical reaction is when one thing changes into something else. For example, when you bake a cake, the ingredients change into a cake. Some reactions are fast, like when a firecracker pops. Some are slow, like when a nail gets rusty. When wood gets very hot, it burns and turns into ash and smoke. That is a chemical reaction. Some reactions give off heat, and some need heat to happen. Mixing baking soda and vinegar makes bubbles — that is a chemical reaction too.
Pier\n\nA pier is a walkway that goes out over water. It is raised up so people can walk on it. Some piers are made of wood, and some are made of concrete. People use piers to get on boats, to fish, or just to look at the water. A pier can be short or very long, even as long as a mile.
Political freedom\n\nPolitical freedom is when people can choose who makes the rules for their country. People can say what they think and meet with others to talk about ideas. In some places, people vote to pick their leaders. Political freedom means no one can stop you from having your own thoughts or telling others about them.
Child development\n\nChild development is how children grow and change from babies to grown-ups. Children learn new things every day, like how to walk, talk, and play. Every child grows at their own speed. Some children may need extra help to learn new things. Long ago, people thought children were born bad and needed to be taught to be good. Later, a man named John Locke said children are born with empty minds, like a blank paper, and learn from what they see and do. Another man named Jean-Jacques Rousseau said children are born good, but the world can make them bad. A doctor named Sigmund Freud thought children have three parts in their mind: the part that wants things right away, the part that knows what is real, and the part that knows right from wrong. He said children go through five stages as they grow. Another man named Erik Erikson said children go through eight stages, and at each stage they learn to solve a problem between two feelings.
Radio wave\n\nRadio waves are a kind of energy that travels through the air. They are like light waves, but much longer. You cannot see radio waves, but they are all around you. Radios use these waves to send music and talk shows to your home. A radio wave looks like a hill and a valley that repeats over and over. The distance from one hill top to the next is called the wavelength. Some radio waves are as short as a few centimeters, and some are as long as a few meters. Antennas on cars and houses catch radio waves so the radio can play. People also use radio waves to talk on mobile phones and to send messages to computers. Big dish-shaped antennas called radio telescopes catch radio waves from space to learn about stars and planets.
Zipper\n\nA zipper is a thing that holds two pieces of cloth together. It has two long strips with little teeth made of metal or plastic. A small part called the slider moves up and down to push the teeth together or pull them apart. When you move the slider down, the zipper opens. When you move it up, the zipper closes. Zippers are on jackets, pants, bags, and many other things. They make a buzzing sound when you move them.
Auk\n\nAn auk is a bird that lives in the northern part of the world. It stays near the ocean. Auks have long, thick bodies, small wings, and short legs with webbed feet. They are black on the back and white on the belly, so they look a little like penguins. But auks can fly, and penguins cannot. Auks flap their wings very fast to fly. They are very good at swimming and diving in the water. Most auks live on the ocean far from land for many months. They come to land only to build nests and lay eggs. Some kinds of auks are puffins, murres, and razorbills.
Plant\n\nA plant is a living thing that grows in the ground. Plants need sunlight, water, and soil to live. Most plants have roots that go into the ground, a stem that stands up, and leaves that are often green. The leaves use sunlight to make food for the plant. This is how plants eat. Plants can be big like trees or small like grass. Some plants have pretty flowers that smell nice. Bees and other bugs visit flowers to get sweet nectar. When a bee goes from flower to flower, it helps the plant make seeds. Seeds can grow into new plants. Some seeds travel on the wind or stick to animals. Plants are very important because they give us food and clean air.
Judo\n\nJudo is a sport where two people try to throw each other to the ground. It started in Japan a long time ago. People who do judo wear special white or blue clothes and a belt. They learn how to fall safely and how to hold someone down. In a judo match, you get points for throwing your friend on the mat. If you hold them down for 20 seconds, you get a point. The person with the most points wins a medal. Girls and boys can both do judo. Girls must tie their hair back. Everyone plays barefoot.
Lusaka\n\nLusaka is a big city in Africa. It is the capital of a country called Zambia. Lusaka is the largest city in that country. It sits on high, flat land. Many people live there.
Spanish moss\n\nSpanish moss is a plant that grows on trees. It lives in warm, wet places like swamps and marshes. You can see it in the southern part of the United States. Spanish moss hangs down from tree branches like long gray hair. It does not hurt the tree. It gets water and food from the air and rain. People have used Spanish moss to stuff pillows and mattresses.
German literature\n\nGerman literature is the stories and poems written in the German language. People in Germany, Austria, and other places write these books. Some German stories are very old and famous, like fairy tales about princesses and dragons.
Peach\n\nA peach is a sweet fruit that grows on a tree. The tree has green pointy leaves and small pink flowers. People keep the tree short so they can pick the fruit easily. The peach has orange or yellow skin with tiny soft hairs, called fuzz. Inside, the fruit is golden and tastes sweet and sticky. There is a hard shell around the seed, so peaches are called stone fruits. Peaches come from China and are a symbol of long life there. The tree can live about 10 to 12 years if it is healthy.
Lawyer\n\nA lawyer is a person who knows a lot about rules called laws. If someone has a problem with the law, they can ask a lawyer for help. The lawyer talks to the judge in court and tries to show that their side is right. Some lawyers help people who are in trouble for doing something wrong. Other lawyers help people buy a house or write a will. Lawyers work in offices or by themselves. They usually get paid for their work, but sometimes they help for free.
Geneva\n\nGeneva is a city in Switzerland. It is the second biggest city in that country. Geneva sits where a big river leaves a huge lake. Many important groups have offices there, like the United Nations and the Red Cross. People in Geneva speak French. The city has a cold winter and a warm summer. Sometimes it rains hard in May. There are over 1,000 places to eat in Geneva. Every year, people watch a special tree to see when spring starts.
Digital camera\n\nA digital camera is a box that takes pictures and saves them as computer files. It does not use film like old cameras. You can take many pictures, even hundreds or thousands, and keep them on a small card called a memory card. Most digital cameras can also record videos. You can connect the camera to a computer with a cable to move the pictures to the computer. Many phones have a small digital camera inside, but a big separate camera usually makes better pictures, especially when it is dark.
Yokohama\n\nYokohama is a big city in Japan. It is near Tokyo and has a big port where ships bring things from other countries. Many cars and machines are sent from this port to other places. Yokohama has a fun area called Minato Mirai with amusement parks and shopping malls. It also has the biggest Chinatown in Japan, where you can see different shops and foods. Long ago, Yokohama was one of the first places in Japan where people from other countries could come and trade.
Rock dove\n\nA rock dove is a kind of bird. Wild rock doves live on faraway islands and rocky cliffs. They have light grey bodies and two black stripes on their wings. Their heads are dark blue-grey, and the feathers on their necks shine green and purple in the sun. Many rock doves live in cities and towns all over the world. People call them pigeons. Pigeons walk on the ground and pick up dropped food in streets and parks. Some pigeons are pets. People have kept pigeons for a very long time, even thousands of years. Some pigeons can find their way home from far away. Pigeons come in many colors, like white, pink, and brown.
Fir\n\nA fir is a tall tree that stays green all year long. It has needles instead of flat leaves. The needles stick to the branches with a little round base. Fir trees grow very tall, up to 80 meters. They have cones that hold seeds. The cones stand up on the branches. Male cones are small and let the wind carry pollen to the female cones. Fir trees have sticky sap inside. People use fir wood to make thin sheets for building things. Fir trees are also planted in gardens to block the wind or look pretty.
Wind\n\nWind is moving air. You cannot see wind, but you can feel it on your skin. Wind can be soft like a breeze or very strong like a storm. Strong wind can blow leaves, hats, and even big trees. Wind helps move clouds and makes kites fly high. Sometimes wind can be so strong that it hurts houses. Wind comes from the sun heating the air. Hot air rises and cool air moves in to take its place. That moving air is wind.
Skunk\n\nA skunk is a small animal with black fur and a white stripe down its back. It has a fluffy tail. When a skunk is scared, it can spray a very bad smell from under its tail. The smell keeps other animals away. Skunks eat plants like berries and nuts, and also small animals like worms and frogs. Sometimes they eat food from trash cans. Most skunks live in the United States and Canada. Some people keep skunks as pets, but it is not allowed in many places because of the smell.
Lighting\n\nLighting is when we use light to see things. We can get light from the sun during the day. Windows let sunlight into a room so we can see without turning on lights. At night, we use lamps and lights on the ceiling to make the room bright. Lighting helps us take pictures and make movies.
Fairy\n\nA fairy is a make-believe creature that can fly in the air. Fairies are often drawn as tiny girls or women with wings. Some fairies have special jobs, like the Tooth Fairy, who leaves a coin or a treat under a child's pillow when a tooth falls out. You can read about fairies in stories like Peter Pan. People in Ireland and Scotland tell old tales about fairies who live in caves underground.
Variable\n\nA variable is a special kind of number or thing that can change. In math, a variable is often a letter like "x" or "y" that stands for a number we do not know yet. In science, a variable can be something like how far you are from a tree. If you walk away, the distance gets bigger, so it changes. In computers, a variable is a place to store something that can change, like a word or a number. Programmers give variables names like "age" or "name" to remember what is inside.
Atlas\n\nAn atlas is a book full of maps. Maps show pictures of places like countries, oceans, and mountains. An atlas can help you find where different cities are. Long ago, people made atlases by hand. Today, atlases show many things, like where people live or what the land looks like. Some atlases are on computers too.
Aggression\n\nAggression is when someone tries to hurt another person or animal on purpose. It can be hitting, pushing, or saying mean things.
Meander\n\nA meander is a curve in a river. Rivers do not go straight; they bend like a snake. The water moves fast on the outside of the bend and cuts away the dirt. On the inside, the water moves slow and drops dirt. Over time, the curves get bigger. Sometimes two curves meet and make a new lake.
Sloth\n\nA sloth is a slow animal that lives in trees in Central and South America. It has long arms with hook-like claws that help it hang upside down from branches. Sloths sleep during the day and are awake at night. They curl up into a ball or hang upside down to rest. Their fur looks like tree bark, so big cats like jaguars cannot see them. Sloths hardly ever come down from the trees. When they do, they crawl very slowly on the ground. But they are good swimmers and can hold their breath underwater for a long time. Sloths eat leaves and flowers, which take a long time to digest. They can live for up to 30 years.
Centaurus\n\nCentaurus is a group of stars in the night sky. It is named after a make-believe creature that is half man and half horse. You can see Centaurus if you live in the southern part of the world. A long time ago, a man named Ptolemy wrote about it. Today, scientists say there are 88 groups of stars in the sky, and Centaurus is one of them.
Solomon Islands\n\nSolomon Islands is a country made of many islands in the South Pacific Ocean. The islands are very pretty and have lots of different languages. The capital city is Honiara. Long ago, the islands were ruled by Britain. During a big war, soldiers from Japan and the United States fought there. Later, there was some fighting between groups of people on the islands. In 2007, a very big earthquake shook the ground and made a huge wave called a tsunami. The wave hurt many people and broke many houses. The ground even pushed up so much that one island got bigger and new rocks showed up near the water.
Lavender\n\nLavender is a plant with pretty purple flowers. It grows in many places around the world. People like to plant lavender in gardens because it smells nice. The flowers can be dried and put in little bags to make clothes smell good. You can also eat lavender! It is used in cakes, cookies, and tea. Some people put lavender in medicine to help with headaches or bug bites. Lavender tea can help you feel calm before bed. The purple color is so special that it has a name: lavender.
Vaccine\n\nA vaccine is a special medicine that helps your body stay healthy and not get sick from certain bad germs. It is usually given as a shot in your arm. When you get a vaccine, your body learns how to fight that germ. Then if the germ tries to get you later, your body can stop it. For example, the flu vaccine helps you not get the flu. Some vaccines have a tiny bit of weak germ that cannot make you sick. Others have dead germs. Your body still learns from them. Vaccines have helped stop many bad sicknesses like measles and polio. Most doctors say vaccines are very safe and good for you.
Mid-Atlantic Ridge\n\nThe Mid-Atlantic Ridge is a long mountain range under the Atlantic Ocean. It is the biggest mountain range in the world, but most of it is underwater. Only a little bit of it sticks up above the water, like in Iceland. The ridge is where the ocean floor slowly pulls apart. Every year the two sides move about as far as your thumb is wide. Hot melted rock comes up from deep inside the Earth and makes new ocean floor. This ridge was found by scientists on a big ship in 1872. They used a special machine to see it under the water. The ridge has a deep crack in the middle, and sometimes earthquakes happen there.
Bat\n\nA bat is a mammal that can fly. Bats sleep during the day and are awake at night. They live in caves, trees, or old buildings. Most bats eat bugs like mosquitoes and moths. Some bats eat fruit. Bats use sound to find their way in the dark. They make high squeaks that bounce off things and come back as echoes. This helps them catch food and not bump into things. Bats have wings made of thin skin stretched between long finger bones. They can fly very fast and change direction quickly. Bats are not blind; they can see well. Some bats live for a very long time, even up to forty years.
Toothache\n\nA toothache is a hurt feeling in your tooth. It happens when a tooth is broken or has a little hole called a cavity. The hurt can come and go. Cold or hot food can make the hurt feel stronger. If your tooth hurts, a grown-up can take you to a tooth doctor to help fix it.
Amaterasu mikami\n\nAmaterasu is a sun goddess in Japanese stories. She is the most important god in the Shinto religion. Her name means "she who lights up the sky." She has a special shrine at Ise. Amaterasu is the sister of Susanoo, the god of the sea and storms, and Tsukuyomi, the god of the moon. One time, Susanoo did bad things like breaking her rice fields and throwing a dead pony into her loom. Amaterasu got very sad and hid in a cave. The world became dark. The other gods tried to get her out. A happy goddess named Ama-no-Uzume danced and made everyone laugh. Amaterasu heard the laughter and came out to see. Then light came back to the world.
Skin\n\nSkin is the outside covering of your body. It keeps bad germs out and helps you stay warm or cool. Skin can be different colors like light or dark. It is the biggest part of your body. Skin stops germs from getting inside and making you sick. It also keeps the sun's strong rays from hurting you. You should keep your skin clean. Some animals have fur, feathers, or scales on their skin. People use animal skin to make leather for shoes and bags.
Jewellery\n\nJewellery is something people wear to look pretty. It has no other job than to be nice to look at. The most common kinds are necklaces, rings, and earrings. People have made jewellery for a very long time. The first jewellery was made from bones, animal teeth, wood, or stone. Today, jewellery can be made from many things, like shiny stones and special metals. Some jewellery is made just for fun and is not expensive.
Chicory\n\nChicory is a plant with bright blue flowers. It grows wild on roadsides in Europe and also in North America, China, and Australia. People use chicory in many ways. They can eat the leaves in salads. The root can be baked and ground up to make a drink that tastes like coffee. Sometimes chicory is used to make a sweet powder called inulin, which is added to food. Animals like cows and sheep also eat chicory as food.
Economics\n\nEconomics is about how people choose to use things like money, time, and stuff. People have to make choices because there is not enough of everything for everyone. For example, if you have one cookie, you have to decide if you eat it now or save it for later. Economics also looks at how people make, sell, and buy things. Families, companies, and the government all make choices about money. Some people study big things like why a whole country gets richer or poorer. That is called macroeconomics. Other people study small things like how a family spends its money. That is called microeconomics.
Gulf of Saint Lawrence\n\nThe Gulf of Saint Lawrence is a big body of salt water in Canada. It is where the Saint Lawrence River meets the Atlantic Ocean. Many rivers pour into this gulf. It has islands like Prince Edward Island and Anticosti Island. Some parts of the gulf are protected parks where birds live. Ships have to be careful because there are many rocks and shipwrecks.
Limpopo River\n\nThe Limpopo River is a long river in Africa. It flows through South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, and Mozambique. The river helps make the border between some of these countries. At the end, the river water goes into the big Indian Ocean.
Railway track\n\nA railway track is a path made of two long steel bars that sit side by side. Trains ride on these bars to carry people and things from one place to another. The steel bars are held up by strong blocks called sleepers, which are made of wood or concrete. Small rocks called ballast are packed around the sleepers to keep the track steady. The train wheels have a special shape and a little lip on the edge so the train stays on the track and does not fall off.
Hispaniola\n\nHispaniola is an island in the Caribbean Sea. It is a big island with two countries on it. One country is called Haiti, and the other is called the Dominican Republic. The island has many mountains and tall peaks. The highest mountain is called Duarte Peak. There are also rivers and lakes. A long time ago, people called the Taíno lived there. Then Christopher Columbus came to the island in 1492. He named it Hispaniola. Now many people live on the island.
Woodwind instrument\n\nA woodwind instrument is something you blow into to make music. Long ago, people made these instruments from wood. Now some are made from metal or plastic. In an orchestra, there are four main kinds: flute, oboe, clarinet, and bassoon. The flute is the highest sounding. You blow across the top of it, like blowing across a bottle top. The oboe and bassoon have a double reed, which is like blowing through a drinking straw. The clarinet has a single reed that shakes when you blow. The saxophone looks like a brass instrument, but it is played like a clarinet, so it is a woodwind. The recorder is a simple woodwind that many children learn to play. Woodwind players shape their mouth in different ways to make different sounds.
Elm\n\nAn elm is a big tree that grows in many cold and warm places around the world. Its leaves are shaped like a pointy oval with little teeth on the edges, and one side is bigger than the other. The tree makes tiny flowers that turn into round, flat seeds that fly in the wind. It takes many years for an elm to grow up tall.
Munich\n\nMunich is a big city in Germany. It is the third biggest city in the country, after Berlin and Hamburg. Many people live there, about one and a half million. Munich has a big airport and trains that go under the ground. It is famous for its soccer team, FC Bayern Munich, which wins many games. The city also has a big park and a river where people can swim. In summer, it is warm, and in winter, it can be cold and snowy.
Persian literature\n\nPersian literature is stories and poems from Iran. People in Iran have been writing poems and stories for a very long time. Some of the poems are about love, nature, and brave heroes. Persian books also tell about history and science. Many people around the world love to read Persian poems.
Tin\n\nTin is a metal that looks silver and is a little soft. You can bend it, and it makes a crackling sound called "tin cry." Tin can melt easily in a flame. People mix tin with copper to make bronze, which is a strong metal used for tools and weapons long ago. Tin is also used to cover other metals, like steel, to keep food safe in cans. Tin foil was used before aluminum foil. Tin is not poisonous, but some tin mixtures can be bad for fish.
Giant tortoise\n\nA giant tortoise is a very big turtle that lives on islands. It can weigh as much as a big sofa and grow longer than a bathtub. Some giant tortoises live on the Galapagos Islands, and some live on Aldabra Atoll in Seychelles. They have a hard shell on their back to protect them. They can live for more than 100 years, which is longer than any other animal that lives on land. The oldest one ever was about 255 years old. Long ago, people caught and ate many giant tortoises, so there were almost none left. Now people protect them, and their numbers are growing again.
Roman art\n\nRoman art is the art made by people who lived in Ancient Rome a long time ago. They made big buildings, statues, and pictures with tiny colored stones called mosaics. Most of their paintings are gone now, but we can still see some of their beautiful statues and buildings.
Bangkok\n\nBangkok is a big city and the capital of Thailand. It is one of the most popular places for people to visit. Many millions of people live there. The city has a warm and sunny weather most of the year. People call it "Krung Thep" for short, which means "city of angels." The full name is very long and hard to say. Many visitors come to Bangkok to see temples, eat food, and shop.
Video\n\nVideo is a way to record and show moving pictures. A video camera takes many pictures very fast to make a video. You can watch videos on a screen like a TV or a computer. Videos can be short, like a music video, or long, like a movie. People use videos to tell stories, learn new things, and have fun.
Fashion\n\nFashion is the way people dress and look. It includes clothes, shoes, hats, and even how you fix your hair. Fashion changes with the weather and where you live. In cold places, people wear warm coats. In hot places, people wear thin clothes. Fashion also changes over time. Long ago, people wore different clothes than today. You can choose your own fashion to show what you like.
Supernatural\n\nSupernatural is a word for things that some people think are real but we cannot see or prove with science. It is not part of nature like trees or animals. Some people believe in ghosts, magic, or other things that are not normal. We cannot say for sure if these things are real, so people have different ideas about them.
Madurai\n\nMadurai is a city in India. It is in a place called Tamil Nadu. Long ago, it was the capital of a kingdom. Many people visit Madurai to see a big, beautiful temple called Meenakshi Amman Temple. There is also a hall with one thousand pillars. Madurai has many other special places like a palace, a big water tank, and a museum. The city has festivals almost every day, so people call it the City of Festivals. It is also called the Non-sleeping city because it is always busy. You can buy good food from shops on the street. A cool drink called Jigardhanda is famous there. Madurai is also known for pretty jasmine flowers.
Synagogue\n\nA synagogue is a place where Jewish people go to pray and worship God. It is like a special house for gathering together. Inside, there is a big room for prayers and sometimes smaller rooms for learning. The front of the room faces a city called Jerusalem. There is a special closet called the Ark that holds the Torah scrolls, which are the holy writings. A light called the Eternal Lamp always shines above the Ark to show that God is always there. There is also a raised platform called the Bimah where someone reads from the Torah. In some synagogues, men and women sit in different places. Jewish people can also pray at home or anywhere with ten grown-ups.
Puerto Rico\n\nPuerto Rico is a place in the Caribbean Sea that belongs to the United States. It is not a state, but people who live there are citizens of the United States. The main island is big, and there are also smaller islands like Vieques and Culebra. The biggest city and capital is San Juan. Most people speak Spanish at home, and many also learn English in school. The money they use is the United States dollar. The name Puerto Rico means "rich port" in Spanish. The island has warm weather, beaches, and forests. Some people want Puerto Rico to become a state, and some want it to be its own country.
Cactus\n\nA cactus is a plant that lives in hot, dry places like deserts. It has thick stems that store water, so it can go a long time without rain. Most cacti have sharp thorns called spines that keep animals from eating them. Cacti come in many shapes and sizes. Some are short and round; others are tall and thin. Many cactus flowers are big and beautiful. Some bloom at night and are pollinated by moths and bats. Some cactus fruits are brightly colored and good to eat. People grow cacti as houseplants because they are pretty and easy to take care of. The fruit of some cacti, like dragonfruit and prickly pear, is eaten by people.
Shrub\n\nA shrub is a plant that is like a small tree but with many stems coming from the ground. Shrubs are usually shorter than trees, often less than 2 meters tall. Some shrubs lose their leaves in winter, and some stay green all year. People plant shrubs in gardens to make them look pretty. Small shrubs like lavender and thyme are called subshrubs.
Cup\n\nA cup is a container that holds liquid for drinking. You can drink water, milk, or juice from a cup. Cups come in many shapes and sizes. Some cups have handles, and some do not. Cups can be made of glass, plastic, or clay.
Power station\n\nA power station is a big building where electricity is made. Inside, a big wheel spins very fast to make the electricity. Some power stations burn coal or gas to make steam that spins the wheel. Others use wind or water to spin the wheel. A few use the sun's light to make electricity without any moving parts. Power stations are all over the world because we need electricity for lights, computers, and many other things.
Virus\n\nA virus is a very tiny thing that can make you sick. It is so small you can only see it with a special microscope. A virus needs to get inside a living thing, like a person, an animal, or a plant, to make more copies of itself. When it does that, it can cause diseases like a cold or the flu. Viruses are not alive like we are; they are like little packages with a coat of protein around some genetic material. They are everywhere, but your body has ways to fight them off. Sometimes you get a shot called a vaccine to help your body learn how to beat a virus before it makes you sick.
Petroleum\n\nPetroleum is a thick, black liquid that comes from deep underground. It is made from tiny sea plants that lived a very long time ago. People drill holes in the ground or under the ocean to find it. Petroleum is used to make fuel for cars, trucks, and airplanes. It is also used to make roads. But there is only so much petroleum in the world, and once it is gone, we cannot get more. When we burn it, it makes the air dirty.
Memory card\n\nA memory card is a tiny flat thing that goes inside a camera, a phone, or a game machine. It keeps your pictures, songs, and saved games safe. Memory cards have no moving parts, so they are hard to break. You can take them out and put them in another device. Some memory cards can hold a lot of pictures, and some hold only a few. The most common kind is called an SD card.
Chinese martial arts\n\nChinese martial arts are special ways of moving your body that come from China. People also call them kung-fu or wushu. These are fighting styles that people have learned for a very long time. Some styles copy how animals move, like a tiger or a crane. Some styles help you breathe and feel calm inside. Other styles make your muscles strong and your heart healthy. People practice them to stay fit and to learn how to protect themselves.
Lullaby\n\nA lullaby is a soft song that people sing to help a baby or small child fall asleep. The song has a gentle, rocking beat that feels calm and cozy. Many mothers sing lullabies at bedtime. Two well-known lullabies are "Rock-a-bye Baby" and "Hush Little Baby." Some music writers also made lullabies for instruments like the piano.
Place value\n\nPlace value is a way to know how much a number is worth. In our number system, where we write numbers from 0 to 9, each spot in a number has a different value. The first spot on the right is for ones. The next spot to the left is for tens. The next spot is for hundreds. For example, in the number 123, the 3 means 3 ones, the 2 means 2 tens (which is 20), and the 1 means 1 hundred (which is 100). So place value helps us understand big numbers.
Aral Sea\n\nThe Aral Sea was a big lake in Central Asia. It is between two countries called Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. Long ago, it was one of the biggest lakes in the world. But starting in the 1960s, the lake got smaller and smaller. People used the rivers that filled the lake to water cotton plants. Now most of the lake is gone. The water that is left is very dirty. People are trying to save the northern part of the lake by building a wall to hold the water. The wall broke once, but they fixed it again. The lake used to have an island where bad germs were tested, but now that island is connected to the land.
Shogi\n\nShogi is a board game from Japan. Two people play it on a board with flat pieces. Each player starts with 20 pieces. The game is like chess but different. When you take a piece from the other player, you can put it back on the board as your own piece. This makes the game very exciting. People in Japan love to play shogi.
Lake Ontario\n\nLake Ontario is a big lake in North America. It is the smallest of the five Great Lakes, but it is still very deep. The lake sits between Canada and the United States. Water comes into Lake Ontario from Niagara Falls. Then water leaves the lake through the Saint Lawrence River. Many people live near Lake Ontario.
Jackal\n\nA jackal is a wild animal that looks a bit like a dog. Jackals live in Africa, Asia, and Europe. They eat meat from small and medium-sized animals. They can run for a long time without getting tired. Jackals often hunt in pairs or groups. They also eat food that other animals leave behind. A mother and father jackal stay together for a long time. They mark their home with pee and poop to keep other jackals away. Baby jackals sometimes stay with their parents until they grow up. There are three kinds of jackals.
State\n\nA state is a group of people who live together in one place and have a government that makes rules for them. The government controls the land and the people. A state has things like laws, police, and an army to keep everyone safe. Some states are ruled by a king or queen, and some states let the people vote for their leaders. Long ago, many states were small and run by kings who fought each other. Today, states have borders that show where one state ends and another begins. Different states can have different kinds of government, like democracy or dictatorship. In a democracy, people get to choose their leaders. In a dictatorship, one person makes all the rules. Some people believe that a state should help workers and make sure everyone is treated fairly. Other people think that a state should not exist at all, and that people can take care of themselves.
Marsh\n\nA marsh is a place where the ground is wet and shallow. It has lots of grass, reeds, and other soft plants growing in the water. The water can be fresh or salty. Many animals live in marshes and use them as homes. Birds, fish, and bugs like to stay there. Marshes are different from swamps because swamps have more trees and deeper water.
Verbena\n\nVerbena is a kind of plant. Some verbena plants grow in Europe. People call one type of verbena "vervain." Some verbena plants are weeds that grow in the wild. Verbena is not the same as lantana, which is another plant that looks a little like it.
Black Sea\n\nThe Black Sea is a big body of saltwater between Europe and other lands. Many big rivers like the Danube and Dnieper flow into it. The sea is connected to the ocean through a long path of other seas. Most of the deep part of the Black Sea has no oxygen, so fish cannot live there. Its water is less salty than the ocean. Long ago, during the ice age, it was a lake of fresh water. The sea is divided by a piece of land called Crimea.
Germanic languages\n\nGermanic languages are a group of languages that people speak. They all started from one old language a long time ago. English is a Germanic language, and many people speak it. Other Germanic languages are German, Dutch, and the languages people speak in countries like Sweden and Norway. Some Germanic languages are not spoken anymore.
Ham\n\nHam is meat that comes from the leg of a pig. People eat ham for meals like breakfast or lunch. Ham can be salty and is often pink or light red in color. Some ham is made by rubbing salt on the meat. Other ham is made with salty water. You can find ham in sandwiches or on a plate with eggs.
Telescope\n\nA telescope is a tool that makes faraway things look bigger and closer. You can use it to look at stars, planets, and the Moon. Some telescopes use curved mirrors, and some use curved lenses to gather light. The first telescope was made in the Netherlands a long time ago. A man named Galileo was the first to point a telescope at the sky. Big telescopes are used by scientists to study space. Small telescopes can be used by anyone to look at the night sky. Some telescopes are even put in space so they can see things that our eyes cannot.
Parenting\n\nParenting is how grown-ups take care of a child and help them grow up. When a baby is very small, parents give the baby food, keep the baby clean and warm, and let the baby sleep a lot. Since babies cannot talk, parents watch them closely and help them learn words. As the child gets bigger, parents teach them things like brushing their teeth and being nice to other people.
History of India\n\nThe history of India is a very long story about people who lived there many, many years ago. A long time ago, early people lived in India and used stone tools. Later, people learned to grow food and build cities. The first big cities were near the Indus River. People there made things from metal and built houses with bricks. Then, people called the Aryans came and wrote the Vedas, which are old teachings. Later, kings from Persia and Greece came to India. One big kingdom was called Magadha. From Magadha came the Maurya Empire, which had a king named Ashoka who helped spread Buddhism. After that, the Gupta Empire was a time of great learning in science and math. Many different kings ruled different parts of India over thousands of years.
Republic of the Congo\n\nThe Republic of the Congo is a country in Africa. Its capital city is Brazzaville. The country has big rainforests in the north and many farms in the south. People grow bananas and peanuts there. The country is near the middle of the world, along the Equator. It has a short coast on the Atlantic Ocean. The Congo River flows through the capital, and across the river is another country called the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Libya\n\nLibya is a country in Africa. It is next to the Mediterranean Sea. The capital city is Tripoli, which sits on the sea. Most of Libya is very dry desert. Not many people live there because it is so hot and sandy. Most people live in cities near the coast. The people are called Libyans. They speak Arabic and most are Muslim. Libya has a lot of oil under the ground. Oil is the main thing the country sells to other countries. Libya also grows food like wheat, olives, and dates. The money used in Libya is called the dinar.
Empire\n\nAn empire is a very big group of lands and people ruled by one strong leader. Long ago, there were many empires like the Roman Empire and the British Empire. Some empires grew fast by fighting and taking over new places. Other empires grew by sailing across the sea to find new lands. The leader of an empire is called an emperor. Today, there is only one emperor left, the Emperor of Japan, but he does not make the rules.
Squash (sport)\n\nSquash is a game where two people hit a ball with a racket. The ball is made of rubber and is hollow. When the ball gets warm from hitting, it bounces more. The racket is smaller and lighter than a tennis racket. Players hit the ball against the front wall. They try to make the ball bounce two times on the floor before the other player can hit it back. The game goes to 11 points, and you must win by 2 points. The first player to win three games wins the match. If a player gets in the way, they can ask for a "let" and play the point again. If a player blocks the other from swinging, the other player can win the point.
Modern art\n\nModern art is a kind of art that people made from a long time ago until about the 1970s. Artists tried new ways to paint and draw. They did not always paint things the way they look in real life. Some artists used bright colors and wild shapes. Others made pictures that look like puzzles. A famous artist named Pablo Picasso made pictures with cubes and triangles. Another artist named Henri Matisse painted people dancing with bright colors. Modern art can be big paintings or small drawings. Some modern art is very famous and costs a lot of money.
Hibernation\n\nHibernation is when some animals sleep for a long time in winter. They do this because there is not much food to eat. Before winter, they eat a lot of food to get fat. Then they find a safe place to sleep. While they sleep, their body gets very cold and they breathe very slowly. They use the fat in their body to stay alive. Bats, hedgehogs, and ground squirrels hibernate. Bears sleep in winter too, but their sleep is not as deep as hibernation.
Forbidden City\n\nThe Forbidden City is a very old palace in the middle of Beijing, China. It was the home of the emperors of China for almost 500 years. The name means that no one could go in or out without the emperor saying yes. Today it is a museum where people can visit and see old buildings and art. The palace is very big and has many rooms. It took over 14 years and more than a million workers to build it.
Colorado River\n\nThe Colorado River is a very long river that flows through the United States and Mexico. It starts high up in the Rocky Mountains and runs through states like Colorado, Utah, Arizona, Nevada, and California. The river is used to water farms and give people water to drink. Big dams on the river make electricity and help stop big floods. Sometimes the river does not reach the ocean anymore because people use so much of its water.
Malaria\n\nMalaria is a sickness that comes from tiny bugs called parasites. These parasites get into your blood when a mosquito bites you. The mosquito that carries malaria is called Anopheles. Only girl mosquitoes bite people because they need blood to make eggs. Boy mosquitoes do not bite. When the parasite gets in your blood, it makes you very sick with a high fever. You might feel hot and cold, have a headache, and feel very tired. The sickness can be very dangerous, especially for little kids and pregnant women. Many people who get malaria live in warm places like Africa. Doctors can test your blood to see if you have malaria. They give medicine to help you get better. But some mosquitoes are hard to kill, and some parasites are hard to stop with medicine.
Mount Vesuvius\n\nMount Vesuvius is a big mountain that can shoot hot ash and fire into the sky. It is in Italy, near a city called Naples. A long, long time ago, in the year 79, it erupted very strongly and covered two towns, Pompeii and Herculaneum, with ash. The ash buried the towns so deep that people forgot about them until they were found many years later. Today, many people live near Mount Vesuvius, and it is still a dangerous volcano. It has erupted many times since then, and the last time was in 1944.
Building\n\nA building is a place with walls and a roof that people make. People live in some buildings, like houses and apartments. Other buildings are for working, like stores and offices. Some buildings are for praying, like churches and temples. Buildings can be tall or short. They have doors to go in and out, and windows to let light inside. A tall building has stairs or an elevator to go up and down. Some buildings have rooms under the ground, called basements. Buildings are made of wood, stone, concrete, or steel. Architects are people who plan how a building will look.
Passover\n\nPassover is a special holiday for Jewish people. They celebrate it to remember a long time ago when God helped Moses free the people from being slaves in Egypt. During Passover, families eat special foods, do special things, and sing songs. It happens in March or April every year.
Netball\n\nNetball is a sport where two teams of seven players try to throw a ball through a hoop. You cannot bounce the ball or walk with it. You must pass the ball to your teammates. Each player stays in a special part of the court. The court is a big rectangle with lines on the ground. The hoop is at each end of the court. When you throw the ball through the hoop, your team gets a point.
Sock\n\nA sock is something you wear on your feet. Socks keep your feet dry and warm. They are often made of cotton or wool. Some socks are short and cover only your foot and ankle. Other socks are long and go up to your knee. Toe socks wrap each toe by itself, like gloves for your feet. Socks come in many colors. White socks are for playing and sports. Dark socks like black or brown are for fancy clothes. Some socks have patterns on them. People also call a cover for a phone a "sock." Phone socks help keep the phone safe.
Tongue\n\nYour tongue is the soft, strong muscle inside your mouth. It helps you taste food, mix it with spit, and move it around so you can eat. Your tongue also helps you talk and make sounds. It is very bendy and can move a lot. Some people can roll their tongue into a tube shape. If your mom or dad can roll their tongue, you might be able to do it too. People who can roll their tongue can sometimes make a funny high sound by blowing through it.
Garter snake\n\nA garter snake is a long, thin animal that slides on the ground. It lives in many places across North America, from cold Alaska to warm Central America. You can tell it by the stripe that runs down its back. The stripe can be different colors. Garter snakes like to hide under leaves, rocks, and sticks. They eat small animals like worms, bugs, and tiny fish. They are not dangerous to people. If they bite, it feels like a little scratch. They can also spray a bad smell. Many garter snakes live in backyards and woods.
Blackcurrant\n\nBlackcurrant is a small fruit that tastes a little bit bitter. It grows in Europe and Asia. The fruit is dark in color, which is how it got its name. Blackcurrant has a lot of vitamin C, which is good for your body. People use it to make jelly, ice cream, and a sweet drink called cordial. In the United Kingdom, blackcurrant is a very popular flavor. You can also put blackcurrants in salads or bake them in cakes, just like raisins.
Electric guitar\n\nAn electric guitar is a musical instrument that makes sound using electricity. It has strings, and when you pluck them, the sound goes to a box called an amplifier that makes it loud. Electric guitars come in many colors and shapes. They have a long neck with metal lines called frets. You press the strings on the frets to make different notes. Many people play electric guitars in bands and rock music. Some famous companies that make them are Fender and Gibson.
Wolf\n\nA wolf is a wild animal that looks a bit like a big dog. It has a long nose, short ears that stand up, long legs, and a bushy tail. Wolves can be gray, white, black, or brown. They live in groups called packs. A pack is usually a mom, a dad, and their babies. Baby wolves are called pups. Pups are born blind and cannot hear at first. Wolves howl to talk to each other from far away. They can run very fast and far. Wolves eat meat like deer, moose, and small animals. They have sharp teeth to tear meat. Wolves live in forests, mountains, and cold places like the Arctic. Some people think wolves are mean, but they are usually gentle and only fight to protect their family.
Institution\n\nAn institution is a set of rules that people follow. Some rules are written down, like laws. Other rules are just things people do, like shaking hands. Families and money are big institutions. Institutions last a long time and help people know how to act.
Tyrannosaurus\n\nTyrannosaurus was a very big dinosaur that lived a long, long time ago. It had a huge head, strong jaws, and tiny arms with two fingers. Its teeth were sharp and could break bones. Tyrannosaurus walked on two big legs and had a long tail to help it balance. Some people call it the king of the dinosaurs. It ate meat and might have hunted other dinosaurs or eaten dead ones. The most famous kind is Tyrannosaurus rex. Scientists have found many of its bones. You can see them in museums. Tyrannosaurus also appears in movies like Jurassic Park.
Voice\n\nA voice is the sound a person makes when they talk or sing. The sound travels through the air so other people can hear it. Your voice comes from your throat, where two small parts called vocal cords help make the sound. When you speak, air passes over them and makes a noise. If a person cannot make any sound with their voice, that is called being mute. The part of a song that people sing with their voice is called vocals. Animals also make sounds, but we usually call those animal sounds instead of voices.
Rhea (bird)\n\nA rhea is a big bird that cannot fly. It lives in South America. The rhea is the biggest bird in all of the Americas. It runs very fast, and when it runs, it holds its neck out flat. Rheas like to stay in groups of 20 to 30 birds. They eat plants, fruits, seeds, nuts, and sometimes bugs or small animals like lizards. The mother rhea lays 12 to 30 eggs. The father rhea makes a nest on the ground, sits on the eggs for 6 weeks, and takes care of the babies.
Inanna\n\nInanna is a make-believe queen from a very old story. People long ago in a place called Sumer thought she was a goddess. They believed she was in charge of love and war. She was also called Ishtar. Her special signs were a lion, a dove, and a star with eight points. Many people liked her and told stories about her.
Grape\n\nA grape is a small fruit that grows on a vine. Grapes can be red, purple, white, or green. You can eat them raw, or make them into juice, jelly, or wine. Some grapes have no seeds inside. When grapes are dried, they become raisins. Grape leaves can also be eaten. Many people like grapes because they taste sweet and are good for you.
Henna\n\nHenna is a plant with flowers. People use it to make a special color. They put the color on their skin to make pretty pictures that wash off after a while. Henna is also used to color hair and fingernails. It has been used for a very long time in places like India and the Middle East. Sometimes people wear henna pictures at weddings.
Leisure\n\nLeisure is free time when you can choose what to do. You do not have to go to school or work. You can play, do fun things with your family, or work on a hobby. Some people go on vacation to a new place and stay in a hotel. Other people stay home and play in their own town. In many countries, people do not work on Saturday and Sunday, so they have more free time.
Disgust\n\nDisgust is a feeling you get when something seems yucky or nasty. You might feel it when you see something dirty or smell something bad. It can also happen when you taste food that does not taste good. Some people feel disgust more than others. You can even make someone feel disgust on purpose.
Florida\n\nFlorida is a state in the southeast part of the United States. It is a peninsula, which means water is on three sides. To the west is the Gulf of Mexico, to the east is the Atlantic Ocean. Florida is called the Sunshine State because it is sunny a lot. It has warm weather and beaches where people like to swim and play. Many people visit Florida for fun. There are big cities like Miami, Orlando, and Tampa. Orlando has theme parks like Walt Disney World and Universal Studios. Florida also has a swamp called the Everglades where alligators live. The capital is Tallahassee.
Industrial park\n\nAn industrial park is a special area where big buildings like factories and warehouses are built. These buildings make things like toys, cars, and food. The park is usually far away from where people live, so the noise and smoke do not bother homes. Trucks and trains bring things to and from the park.
Silent movie\n\nA silent movie is a movie that has no sound. Long ago, cameras could not record sound, so movies were made without talking or noise. People would watch the movie while music played in the room. Sometimes words would appear on the screen to tell the story. A funny man named Charlie Chaplin was a big star in silent movies. He made people laugh without saying a word.
Dentures\n\nDentures are fake teeth that people can put in their mouth to help them eat and talk. They are also called false teeth. Dentures can be made of plastic, nylon, or metal. Some people need all their teeth replaced, and some need only a few. A dentist makes them fit just right so they look like real teeth. You should not wear them when you sleep at night. They help keep your face from looking droopy and help you chew food better.
Suez Canal\n\nThe Suez Canal is a long water path in Egypt. It is like a big ditch filled with water. Ships use it to travel from Europe to Asia without going all the way around Africa. That saves a lot of time. The canal is 163 kilometers long. It was finished in 1869. Many ships go through it every year. In 2021, a big ship got stuck in the canal and blocked it for a while.
Male\n\nMale is one of the two kinds of people or animals. A male human is called a man or a boy. Male and female have different body parts. A male's body can help make a baby with a female's body. Long ago, men often went hunting for food, but today men and women can do many of the same jobs.
Pumpkin\n\nA pumpkin is a fruit that grows on a vine. It is usually orange, but it can also be purple, red, blue, or white. Pumpkins are round or oval. People can eat pumpkins. They make pumpkin pie and pumpkin soup. You can also eat the seeds. People use pumpkins for decoration, like making jack-o-lanterns for Halloween.
Stand-up comedy\n\nStand-up comedy is a show where one person tells funny stories and jokes to people watching. That person is called a comedian. The comedian talks into a microphone so everyone can hear. They tell many short jokes very fast. Sometimes they use music, toys, or magic tricks to be extra funny. You can see stand-up comedy at clubs, bars, schools, or theaters. Some places let new comedians try their jokes in front of a small crowd to get better.
Chichen Itza\n\nChichen Itza is a very old city made by the Maya people a long time ago. It is in Mexico. The most famous building there is a big pyramid called El Castillo. It has four sides and each side has 91 steps. People used to climb the pyramid, but the steps are very steep and small, so now no one is allowed to climb it. There is also a big temple called the Temple of the Warriors. It has many stone columns with pictures of warriors wearing feathers. The Great Ballcourt is a huge field where people played ball games long ago. If you whisper at one end, someone at the other end can hear you. There is a deep hole in the ground called a cenote, which is like a lake underground. The Maya gave gifts to the gods there. Chichen Itza is one of the seven wonders of the world.
Domestic worker\n\nA domestic worker is a person who works in someone else's home and gets paid for it. They can choose to leave their job if they want. Some domestic workers wear a special uniform. Long ago, there were many different kinds of domestic workers. A butler was the most important man servant. A valet took care of his master's clothes. Women workers were maids who cleaned, cooks who made food, and nannies who watched children. Gardeners took care of the yard. Today, some people from poorer countries work as domestic workers in richer countries.
Pakistan\n\nPakistan is a country in Asia. It is next to India, Iran, Afghanistan, and China. Many people live there. The capital is Islamabad. Pakistan has a long coast along the Arabian Sea. It has high mountains, deserts, and flat lands. The Indus River flows through the country. Pakistan has four seasons: cool winter, hot spring, rainy summer, and dry autumn. Earthquakes sometimes happen there. Pakistan became its own country in 1947.
Thai language\n\nThai language is the main language spoken in Thailand, a country far away. People in Thailand use Thai to talk to each other. Thai sounds like music because the same word can mean different things if you say it in a high or low voice. Thai has its own special letters that look different from English letters. There are 44 consonant letters in Thai. Thai is a lot like the Lao language, so people who speak Thai can understand some Lao words.
Gladiator\n\nA gladiator was a fighter in old Rome. They fought other people or wild animals in a big round place called an arena. People came to watch the fights for fun. Many gladiators were slaves or people who lost a war. Some free men chose to become gladiators to become famous. They used swords, spears, or axes. A few gladiators became very rich and well-known.
Potato\n\nA potato is a vegetable that grows under the ground. It has light-brown or yellow skin and is white or yellow inside. People eat potatoes all over the world. Potatoes can be boiled, baked, roasted, or fried. French fries are long strips of potato that are fried until soft. Potato chips are very thin round slices that are fried until hard. Potatoes have a lot of starch, which gives you energy. If a potato gets light on it, it turns green and is not safe to eat. Potatoes first grew in the mountains of South America a long time ago. People brought them to Europe, and now they grow in many places.
Odin\n\nOdin is a make-believe god from old stories. He is the king of all the gods and lives in a place called Asgard. Odin has only one eye because he gave away the other eye to learn many things. He has two pet ravens named Huginn and Muninn that fly around the world and tell him what they see. Odin rides a horse with eight legs called Sleipnir. He carries a special spear that always hits what he aims at. The day Wednesday is named after Odin.
Solid\n\nA solid is a kind of stuff that keeps its own shape. You can hold a solid in your hand, and it does not spill like water. The tiny pieces that make up a solid are stuck close together, so they can only wiggle a little bit. A rock is a solid. A toy block is a solid. When you heat a solid, it can melt and become a liquid. When you cool a liquid, it freezes and becomes a solid. Some solids, like dry ice, can turn into a gas without melting first. Metals are a kind of solid. Metals are strong and heavy. They can carry electricity and heat. People use metals to make buildings, cars, tools, and wires. Iron and aluminum are two common metals. Minerals are another kind of solid. They are found in the ground and have a special shape inside.
Multimedia\n\nMultimedia is when a computer shows you many kinds of things at once, like words, pictures, sounds, and moving videos. It can tell you a story or help you learn something new. You can see a picture and hear a sound at the same time. Some games and shows on a computer use multimedia to be more fun.
Port\n\nA port is a place by the water where big boats called ships can stop. Ships bring things to the port, like food, toys, and other stuff people need. People can also get on or off ships at a port. A port is often called a harbor. Some ports are on the ocean, some are on rivers, and some are on lakes. A good port is safe from big waves and strong wind. Some ports are for fishing boats, and some are for big ships that carry people on trips. The Port of Miami is a very busy port for cruise ships.
Lhasa\n\nLhasa is a city in a place called Tibet. It is very high up in the mountains, one of the highest cities in the world. In Lhasa, there are special buildings where people go to pray and be quiet, like the Potala Palace. The city is very old and has many beautiful temples.
Friction\n\nFriction is a push that slows things down when they rub together. When you slide on the floor, friction makes you stop. It also makes heat, like when you rub your hands together fast. Car brakes use friction to stop the car. Shoes use friction so you do not slip. Friction can be strong enough to keep things from moving at all.
Wheelchair\n\nA wheelchair is a special chair with wheels. People who cannot walk use a wheelchair to move around. Some wheelchairs have big wheels that the person pushes with their hands. Other wheelchairs have a motor and run on a battery. Sometimes another person pushes the wheelchair from behind. Wheelchairs can have soft cushions to make sitting more comfortable. The first wheelchair was made a long time ago by a man who could not use his legs.
Pig\n\nA pig is a mammal with a big round body and short legs. Pigs live on farms and in the wild all over the world. Some people keep pigs as pets. Baby pigs are called piglets. Pigs eat both plants and animals. They are very smart and can even learn to play simple games. Pigs roll in mud to keep cool and to protect their skin from bugs and the sun. Many pigs are pink, but some pet pigs can be other colors. People eat pig meat, which is called pork. Some religions say it is not okay to eat pork. Pigs need a clean place to sleep, lots of water, and food like corn.
Snow\n\nSnow is frozen water that falls from the sky. It is made of tiny ice crystals that are all different shapes and sizes. Snow comes from clouds when it is very cold. When snow gets warm, it melts into water. Sometimes snow turns into water vapor without melting first. People use snow for fun things like skiing and sledding. They also build snowmen and snow forts. Snow can be dangerous because it makes it hard to see and hard to drive. Trucks called snow plows push snow off the roads. Salt is put on roads to help the snow melt faster. A blizzard is a big snowstorm with strong winds.
Mantis\n\nA mantis is a kind of insect. It has long front legs that it holds up like it is praying. That is why it is called a praying mantis. Mantises are very good at hunting. They wait very still and then grab other bugs very fast with their front legs. They eat flies, bugs, and sometimes even small lizards or frogs. Mantises can turn their heads almost all the way around to see things. They are often green or brown to hide in leaves and look like a stick or a leaf. Mantises do not have poison and are not dangerous to people. They can bite, but it does not hurt much.
Ketchup\n\nKetchup is a thick, red sauce that tastes sweet and a little sour. It is made from tomatoes, vinegar, and sugar. People like to put ketchup on burgers, french fries, sausages, hot dogs, and fish sticks. A long time ago, a man named Heinz made ketchup famous. Now you can find ketchup in many stores and restaurants. Some ketchup comes in small packets that you tear open and squeeze out. There was even colored ketchup that was green, purple, or blue, but that is not sold anymore.
Lake Huron\n\nLake Huron is a very big lake in North America. It is one of the five Great Lakes. Lake Huron is very long and deep. Many boats carry things like iron ore across the lake. The lake sits between Canada and the United States. There are no big cities on Lake Huron, but there are small cities like Sarnia and Bay City. Water from Lake Huron flows through a river past Detroit and into Lake Erie. In 1996, a big storm like a hurricane happened on Lake Huron, and people called it Hurricane Huron.
Protestantism\n\nProtestantism is a way of following Jesus. It started a long time ago in Europe. Some people thought the church should follow the Bible more closely. A man named Martin Luther helped start this. He wrote down his ideas on a paper. Many churches today are Protestant. They believe in God and read the Bible.
Stroke\n\nA stroke is when part of the brain stops getting blood. Blood brings food and air to the brain. If a tube that carries blood gets blocked or breaks, the brain cannot work right. A person having a stroke may not be able to move one arm or leg. They might have trouble talking or seeing. Strokes are very serious and need help fast. Doctors can look at the brain with a special machine to see if someone had a stroke. To help stop a stroke, people should eat healthy food and not smoke.
Holi\n\nHoli is a fun festival with lots of colors. People in India and Nepal celebrate it. The festival is about good winning over bad. A long time ago, a bad king tried to hurt a good boy named Prahlad. The king's sister Holika had a magic robe that kept her safe from fire. She sat in fire with Prahlad, but the magic went wrong. Holika got burned and Prahlad was safe. That is why people celebrate Holi. On Holi, people throw colored powder and water on each other. They sing and dance. Families get together and have a happy day.
Ankara\n\nAnkara is a big city in the country of Turkey. It is the capital, which means the most important city where the leaders work. Ankara is in the middle of Turkey. It is a modern city with tall buildings and wide streets. Many people live there. Ankara has a big building called Anitkabir, which is a special place built to remember the first president of Turkey. The city also has places where people watch dances, listen to music, and see plays. Long ago, many different groups of people came to Ankara and lived there.
Theme park\n\nA theme park is a fun place with rides like roller coasters and water slides. It also has shops, restaurants, and shows. Kids, teenagers, and grown-ups can all enjoy theme parks. Some parks are about movies or toys. Long ago, people dressed up fancy to go to theme parks. Now people wear comfortable clothes and sneakers. Rides used to be made of wood, but now they are made of steel and are safer. Some famous theme parks are Disneyland and Universal Studios.
Holy Grail\n\nThe Holy Grail is a special cup from a very old story. People in the Christian religion tell a story about it. They say Jesus used it at his last dinner with his friends. Later, someone used it to catch his blood. The story says the cup has special powers. Many old stories about knights talk about looking for the Holy Grail. A cup that might be the Holy Grail is kept in a big church in Spain. Today, people use the words "Holy Grail" to talk about something very important that is hard to find.
Gorilla\n\nA gorilla is a big, strong ape that lives in Africa. Gorillas have black skin and hair. They have a wide chest, short legs, and long arms. Older male gorillas have silver hair on their backs, so they are called silverbacks. Gorillas live in family groups called troops. They walk on their feet and knuckles. They eat plants like leaves, vines, and bamboo shoots. Sometimes they also eat ants or termites. Gorillas are usually gentle, but they can be scary if they feel in danger. The silverback protects the troop by standing up and beating his chest. Gorillas sleep in nests made of leaves and branches on the ground. Baby gorillas hold onto their mothers for the first few years. Gorillas can live for 35 to 50 years.
Plastic surgery\n\nPlastic surgery is a kind of doctor's work that changes how a person's body looks or works. Doctors can fix parts that got hurt, like skin from a burn. They can also change how a body part looks, like making a face look younger by pulling the skin tight. This work can be done on bones, skin, and other parts of the body.
Drainage\n\nDrainage is how extra water is taken away from land. Sometimes the ground has too much water, and people help move it away so plants can grow. A long time ago, people in a place called the Indus Valley made special paths for water to flow out of their cities. These paths were under the ground and covered up. In the Netherlands, people used windmills to pump water out of lakes and make new land for farms and houses.
Personality\n\nPersonality is what makes you you. It is the way you think, feel, and act most of the time. Your personality includes what you like and what you do not like. It can change a little as you grow up, but that takes a long time. Knowing someone's personality can help you guess how they will act in different situations.
Homelessness\n\nHomelessness means not having a place to live. Some people sleep on the street, in shelters, or in cars. It can happen when people cannot pay for a home. Many homeless people live in cities like San Francisco, Dublin, and Tallinn. Being homeless can make people sick because they cannot wash or see a doctor. It is hard to find good food. Some people use mean words for homeless people, but it is better to say 'unhoused person' or just 'person'.
Reflection (physics)\n\nReflection is when light hits something and bounces back. When you look in a mirror, you see your face because light bounces off the mirror and goes to your eyes. The light bounces the same way every time. People use reflection to make things like mirrors and shiny signs on the road so cars can see them at night.
Taboo\n\nA taboo is something that people in a group or society say you should not do or talk about. Different groups have different taboos. Some taboos are against the law, and breaking them can get you in trouble. The word 'taboo' comes from a language in Tonga, where it means 'not allowed' or 'forbidden'. For example, eating certain foods is taboo in some religions. In many places, doing private things like burping or picking your nose in public is taboo. Taboos help people know what is okay and what is not okay to do.
Dodo\n\nA dodo is a bird that lived long ago but is now gone forever. It lived on an island called Mauritius. The dodo was a big bird with grey feathers and yellow feet. It had a big hooked beak that was green and yellow. Its wings were very small, so it could not fly. The dodo ate fruit, seeds, and nuts. It was not scared of people, so people could catch it easily. Dogs, cats, rats, and pigs also hurt the dodos by eating their eggs. People cut down the forests where the dodos lived. After about 80 years, there were no more dodos left. Today we can see dodo bones in museums.
Southern Africa\n\nSouthern Africa is the part of Africa that is farthest south. It is a big area with many countries. Some of those countries are South Africa, Botswana, and Zimbabwe. The weather there can be hot and dry, and there are big deserts and grasslands. Many wild animals live there, like lions, elephants, and zebras. People in Southern Africa speak different languages and have many different ways of life.
Horizon\n\nThe horizon is the line where the sky meets the ground. When you look far away, the sky and the earth seem to touch each other. That line is the horizon. Sometimes trees, houses, or hills hide the horizon, so you cannot see it clearly. The horizon looks flat, but the earth is round.
Cattle\n\nCattle are big animals that live on farms. They have four legs and a big body. Some cattle are called cows, some are called bulls, and baby cattle are called calves. Cattle eat grass. They have a special stomach that helps them eat grass. They live in groups called herds. Cows give us milk to drink. People also use cattle for meat and to pull heavy things. Cattle can be many colors like black, white, or brown. They say "moo" to talk to each other.
Toxicity\n\nToxicity is how much a thing can hurt you if you eat it, touch it, or breathe it. Almost everything can be bad for you if you have too much of it. Even water can hurt you if you drink too much. But a little bit of something that is very bad might not hurt you at all. Something that is bad for one animal might not be bad for another. Some things hurt you right away, and some things hurt you only after a long time. People do not test things on humans on purpose, but sometimes they learn from accidents.
Hephaestus\n\nHephaestus is a Greek god who made things out of metal and fire. He was born weak and his mom Hera threw him off a cloud because she did not like how he looked. He fell into the sea and ocean animals saved him. He lived on an island under a volcano and made pretty jewelry, golden robots, and thrones for the gods. He made a special golden chair that trapped Hera when she sat on it. He married Aphrodite, but she did not love him. Hephaestus liked to work alone in his workshop.
Bedroom\n\nA bedroom is a room in a house where people sleep. It has a bed and places to keep clothes, like drawers or a closet. Some bedrooms have a small table next to the bed called a nightstand. A house can have more than one bedroom. The biggest bedroom is called the master bedroom, and it sometimes has its own bathroom.
Emergency department\n\nAn emergency department is a special part of a hospital. It is for people who get hurt or sick very suddenly. They do not need to make a plan to come. They can just go to the hospital right away. Many people come in an ambulance. The doctors and nurses there work all day and all night, every day of the week. They help fix broken bones, stop bleeding, and make sick people feel better. Sometimes people call it the emergency room, or ER for short.
History of agriculture\n\nAgriculture is when people grow plants and take care of animals for food, clothes, and other things. A long, long time ago, people started to plant seeds from wild plants and keep wild animals near them. This helped people have more food and build big towns and cities. Farmers grow different plants and animals depending on where they live. Over time, people learned new ways to farm, like using water from rivers to water plants and using horses to help plow fields. Now, farmers use big machines like tractors and special tools to grow lots of food.
Yogurt\n\nYogurt is a food made from milk. It is thick and a little bit sour. To make yogurt, milk is heated up and then special tiny living things called bacteria are added. The bacteria change the milk into yogurt. Yogurt can be made from cow milk, almond milk, soy milk, or coconut milk. It has been eaten for a very long time, all over the world. Yogurt is good for you because it has protein and calcium, which help your bones grow strong. Some people who cannot drink milk can eat yogurt instead. You can eat yogurt for breakfast or as a snack.
Veterinary medicine\n\nVeterinary medicine is a kind of doctor work for animals. People who do this job are called vets. Vets help sick or hurt animals get better. They take care of pet dogs, cats, and also farm animals and wild animals. Vets give animals medicine, fix broken bones, and check if animals are healthy. They also help keep people safe from sicknesses that can pass from animals to humans.
Food poisoning\n\nFood poisoning is when you get sick after eating food or drinking something that has gone bad. It can make your tummy hurt, make you throw up, or give you a fever. Most people get better in a few days. But babies and old people need to be extra careful. To stay safe, always wash your hands before eating and keep food in the fridge.
Shame\n\nShame is a feeling you get when you think you did something wrong. It can happen when you break a rule that people around you follow. Sometimes you feel ashamed even if no one else knows what you did. Grown-ups sometimes tell children to feel ashamed when they make a mistake. As children get older, they learn to tell the difference between things they did on purpose and things that just happened. Then they start to feel a different feeling called guilt.
Moscow\n\nMoscow is a big city and the capital of Russia. It sits next to the Moskva River. Many people live there, more than in most other cities in Europe. Moscow has a big walled place called the Kremlin where the leader of Russia works. There is also a famous red square and a pretty church with colorful onion-shaped tops. The city has a big train system under the ground called the Metro. It is very busy and takes people all around the city. Moscow has cold winters with lots of snow and warm summers. Long ago, Moscow was the capital of a big country called the Soviet Union. Today it is still the most important city in Russia.
Pegasus\n\nPegasus is a make-believe horse with big white wings. He can fly high up in the sky. Pegasus is very beautiful and strong. A long time ago, a man named Bellerophon wanted to ride Pegasus. A goddess named Athena gave him a special golden rope to help catch Pegasus. Together, they fought a scary monster called the Chimera. But when Bellerophon tried to fly to the home of the gods, a little bug bit Pegasus and made him jump, so Bellerophon fell off. Pegasus is a famous flying horse from old stories.
Ironing\n\nIroning is a way to make clothes smooth after washing. You use a tool called an iron. The iron gets hot, and you push it over the clothes. This takes out the wrinkles and makes the clothes look nice. Some clothes have a label that tells you if you can iron them. People often use a special board to put the clothes on while ironing.
Passport\n\nA passport is a special book that lets you travel to other countries. It has your picture, your name, and when you were born. The passport shows that you belong to your home country. When you go to another country, the people there look at your passport and let you in. Then when you come back home, your passport helps you get back in. Many passports now have a secret chip that makes sure it is really you. Some passports let you visit many places without extra papers, and some let you visit only a few.
Forest\n\nA forest is a big piece of land with many trees. Forests grow in many places around the world. They are home to many plants and animals. Some forests are cold, and some are warm. In cold forests, trees have needles and cones. In warm forests, trees have leaves and flowers. Rain forests are very wet and hot. Many animals live in forests, like bears, deer, birds, and squirrels. Forests are important because they give us clean air and wood.
Durian\n\nA durian is a big fruit with a hard shell covered in soft thorns. It has a very strong smell that some people like and others do not. The fruit grows in hot, wet places. Inside, the soft part is used to make food in some countries. You can also eat the seeds after they are cooked. Some people call durian the "King of Fruits."
Electron\n\nAn electron is a very tiny piece of matter that has a negative charge. It is smaller than an atom. Every atom has electrons that go around its center. Electrons are so small that you cannot see them. They help make electricity flow through wires to power your TV and toys. Electrons push away from each other because they have the same charge. But they are pulled toward the center of an atom because that part has a positive charge. When many electrons move together, we call it electricity.
Coin\n\nA coin is a small, flat piece of metal that people use as money. Coins are usually worth less than paper money. Most coins have a picture of a person's head on one side and a different picture on the other side. You can toss a coin in the air and catch it to make a random choice. This is called heads or tails. Some people like to collect old coins. Old coins can cost a lot or a little, depending on how rare they are.
Economic growth\n\nEconomic growth is when a country makes more things to sell or use. This can happen when more people work or when people find better ways to make things. When there is economic growth, people often have more money to buy food, toys, and other things they need.
Obesity\n\nObesity means a person is much too heavy for their height, and it can make them sick. It is also called being very overweight. The most common reason is eating more food than the body uses up. Some people are more likely to be obese because of their family. Being very heavy can cause health problems like diabetes. Doctors help people lose weight by eating healthy food and moving more. Sometimes doctors do surgery to make the stomach smaller. Some people think being very heavy is bad, but in some places people think it means you are rich or beautiful.
Room\n\nA room is a space inside a building. Walls keep it apart from other rooms. A door lets you go in and out. Rooms have different jobs. A bedroom is for sleeping. A kitchen is for cooking food. A bathroom has a toilet and a bath. People have used rooms for a very long time. Long ago, houses had bedrooms, kitchens, and closets, just like today. Some rooms were built on top of other rooms, with stairs to go up and down.
Physics\n\nPhysics is the science that studies how things move and how the universe works. It looks at big things like stars and planets, and tiny things like atoms. Physics helps us understand why a ball rolls, why a magnet sticks to the fridge, and why the sun shines. People who study physics are called physicists. They use math to figure out how things work. Physics also helps make cool things like airplanes, computers, and light bulbs.
Postage stamp\n\nA postage stamp is a small piece of paper that you put on an envelope. It shows that you paid to send the letter. The stamp goes on the top right corner of the envelope. The first stamp was made in Britain a long time ago. It was called the Penny Black. Many countries have their own stamps with different pictures. Some people like to collect stamps and put them in a book called a stamp album. Sometimes a stamp has a mistake, like a picture printed upside down. That makes it very special.
Tennis\n\nTennis is a sport where you hit a ball over a net with a racket. The ball is made of rubber and covered with soft felt. You play on a court, which can be grass, clay, or hard ground. Two or four people can play. When two play, it is called singles. When four play, it is called doubles. The goal is to hit the ball so the other player cannot hit it back. That way you win a point. Points are counted as love, 15, 30, and 40. If both players have 40, it is called deuce. Then you need two more points to win the game. A game is part of a set. A set is won when a player wins six games. A match is won by winning two sets. There are big tournaments like Wimbledon and the U.S. Open. Tennis is also played at the Olympics.
Archimedes' screw\n\nArchimedes' screw is a machine that moves water up. It looks like a big screw inside a tube. When you turn the screw, water goes up and comes out at the top. People use it to water plants in fields. You can turn it by hand, or a windmill can turn it. It is still used today all over the world.
Scale model\n\nA scale model is a small copy of something big. It looks just like the real thing but is much smaller. People make scale models to show what a big building or a car will look like. Some people collect scale models for fun. You can also use a scale model to learn about math and sizes.
Cartoon\n\nA cartoon is a kind of picture or drawing. Some cartoons are funny pictures in newspapers. Some cartoons are moving pictures on TV or in movies. A person who draws cartoons is called a cartoonist. Long ago, cartoon meant a big drawing that helped an artist make a painting or a rug. Now, cartoons can be short funny movies with characters like Mickey Mouse or Bugs Bunny. Many children watch cartoons on television for fun.
Bay of Biscay\n\nThe Bay of Biscay is a big part of the ocean near France and Spain. It is next to the Atlantic Ocean. The water there can get very rough and stormy, especially in winter. Long ago, big storms would break ships, but now boats are stronger and people can tell when a storm is coming. Many kinds of whales and dolphins live in the bay. Some whales that are hard to see in other places can be found here.
Lynx\n\nA lynx is a wild cat that looks like a big house cat. It has short fur, a short tail, and pointy ears with little tufts of hair on top. Its paws are big and fluffy so it can walk on snow. Lynxes live in forests high up in the mountains. They hunt animals like rabbits, birds, and mice. They are very good at climbing trees and can swim too. A mother lynx has two to four babies, called kittens, and they stay with her for about nine months. Lynxes are usually alone, but sometimes a few travel together. Some kinds of lynx are very rare and people try to protect them.
Pacifism\n\nPacifism is when someone thinks fighting and war are not good ways to solve problems. People who believe in pacifism want peace instead of hitting or hurting others.
Foot (unit)\n\nA foot is a way to measure how long something is. It is about as long as your own foot. One foot is the same as 12 inches. People use feet to tell how tall a person is. If someone is 5 feet tall, that means they are as tall as five feet laid end to end. In some countries, people still use feet to measure things like how high a door is or how tall a building is.
Landscape architecture\n\nLandscape architecture is a job where people plan and design outdoor spaces like parks, gardens, and playgrounds. The person who does this job is called a landscape architect. They decide where to put trees, flowers, paths, and benches so that people can enjoy being outside. They also think about how buildings and nature can look nice together.
Russia\n\nRussia is a very big country. It is the biggest country in the whole world. Russia is in two parts of the world: Europe and Asia. The capital city is Moscow. Moscow is a very big city. People in Russia speak Russian. Russia has a lot of land and many forests and rivers. Some parts of Russia are very cold. The leader of Russia is called the president. The current president is Vladimir Putin. Russia has a long history. Long ago, it was part of a bigger country called the Soviet Union. Russia has many different kinds of people and places.
Sugar\n\nSugar is something that tastes sweet. You can find it in many foods, or people add it to make food sweeter. Sugar comes from plants like sugarcane and sugar beets. The human body changes sugar into smaller parts to use for energy. Sugar can be white or brown. Brown sugar has molasses in it and is often used for baking. Fruits have a kind of sugar called fructose. Sugar is a kind of carbohydrate, which means it gives your body energy.
Triton (moon)\n\nTriton is a big moon that goes around the planet Neptune. It is the biggest moon of Neptune and the seventh biggest moon in our whole solar system. Triton is a little smaller than our own Moon. It is very, very cold there, colder than anywhere else in the solar system. The ground is made of ice and frozen gas. Sometimes the ice melts and turns into gas, making geysers that shoot up. Triton has a thin layer of air around it. It spins so that one side always faces Neptune, just like our Moon always faces Earth. Triton was found by a man named William Lassell in 1846, just a few days after Neptune was discovered.
Anatomy\n\nAnatomy is learning about the bodies of people and animals. It looks at the inside and outside of the body. It finds where things like muscles, bones, and other parts are. A person who studies anatomy is called an anatomist. There are big parts you can see, like your arm, and tiny parts you need a special tool to see. Your body has many parts that work together, like your heart that pumps blood, your muscles that help you move, your brain that thinks, and your bones that hold you up.
Palm tree\n\nA palm tree is a kind of plant that grows in hot places. It has a long, straight trunk and big leaves at the top. The leaves can look like a fan or like feathers. Palm trees grow in warm parts of the world, like near the ocean. Some palm trees give us food, like coconuts and dates. People also use palm leaves to make roofs and baskets. Palm trees are very tall and can live for many years.
Amphibian\n\nAn amphibian is an animal that lives both in water and on land. Frogs, toads, salamanders, and caecilians are all amphibians. They are cold-blooded and have four legs. Amphibians lay eggs in water. The babies, called tadpoles, live in water and have gills to breathe. As they grow, they change into adults with lungs and legs. Adult amphibians can also breathe through their skin. They like to live near fresh water in warm places. Some amphibians are brown or green to hide from animals that want to eat them. Others have bright colors to warn that they are poisonous. Amphibians are found all over the world except Antarctica.
Writing\n\nWriting is a way to put words down so other people can read them later. People use special marks, like letters or pictures, to show what they want to say. Long ago, people wrote on clay, stone, or animal skin. Today, we mostly write on paper or on computer screens. Writing helps us remember things and share ideas with people far away or from long ago. Some writing uses pictures, like the old Egyptian way called hieroglyphs. Other writing uses letters, like the ABCs we use in English. Writing is very old—people started writing more than 5000 years ago in a place called Mesopotamia. Now, many people around the world write every day.
Geometry\n\nGeometry is about shapes and sizes. It helps us understand how big or small things are. Flat shapes like squares, circles, and triangles are part of geometry. Solid shapes like cubes, balls, and cones are also part of geometry. People use geometry to measure land and build houses. A long time ago, a man named Euclid wrote the first book about geometry. Geometry is a very old kind of math.
Sichuan\n\nSichuan is a big place in western China. Its main city is called Chengdu. Many people live there, more than in most other parts of China. Most of the people are Han Chinese, but there are also Tibetans and other groups. The food from Sichuan is famous for being very spicy and making your mouth feel tingly. Some well-known dishes are Kung Pao chicken and Twice Cooked Pork. Sichuan also has a special kind of opera with music and dancing. People there play music with bamboo flutes, gongs, and drums.
Dutch language\n\nDutch is a language that people speak in the Netherlands, a country in Europe. It is also spoken in Belgium and in a country called Suriname. About 22 million people speak Dutch. Dutch uses the same letters as English. Some Dutch words are "hallo" for hello and "ja" for yes. Numbers in Dutch are "een" for one, "twee" for two, and "drie" for three.
Oscillation\n\nOscillation is when something moves back and forth or up and down, like a swing. A toy on a spring bounces up and down, and that is oscillation. A guitar string wiggles back and forth when you pluck it. Many things in nature do this, like a tree branch blowing in the wind. After a while, the moving part slows down and stops because of rubbing.
Mauritania\n\nMauritania is a country in northwest Africa. It is next to the Atlantic Ocean. The biggest city and capital is Nouakchott. The land is mostly flat. Many people in Mauritania are Muslim. They speak Arabic and French. Some people also speak other languages like Wolof and Pulaar. Mauritania has a lot of iron ore, which is a kind of rock used to make metal. Many people there work on farms or take care of animals.
Cod\n\nCod is a fish that lives in the ocean. It is big and likes to eat other fish. People catch cod for food because it tastes good. Cod is used to make fish and chips. The liver of cod is used to make oil that is good for you. Cod can grow very long, as long as a tall kid. The biggest cod ever caught was very heavy.
Ocean\n\nAn ocean is a very big body of water that covers most of our Earth. There are five main oceans: the Pacific, Atlantic, Indian, Southern, and Arctic. The Pacific is the biggest and deepest. Many animals live in the ocean, like fish, crabs, whales, and sharks. The water looks blue because it takes in red light and shows blue and green light. Some parts of the ocean are very cold and dark, and special animals live there without sunlight. People catch fish from the ocean for food.
Love\n\nLove is a warm feeling you have for someone you like very much. You can love your mom and dad, your friends, or even a pet. Love makes you want to care for them and be nice to them. When you love someone, you feel happy when they are happy. Sometimes love makes your heart feel full and your tummy feel funny. There are different kinds of love. The love you have for your family is different from the love you have for a friend. Some people fall in love when they grow up and want to be together forever. Love is a very special feeling.
Eel\n\nAn eel is a fish with a long, thin body that looks like a snake. Some eels are as short as your hand, and some are as long as a big car. Eels have fewer fins than other fish. They hatch from eggs. Baby eels are flat and see-through, and they look very different from grown-up eels. Most eels live at the bottom of the ocean, sometimes in holes. Some eels live in rivers and lakes. Eels eat other animals. People catch eels with nets and cook them for food. The skin of eels can be used to make wallets and purses.
Geography\n\nGeography is about the Earth and the people who live on it. It looks at big things like continents, seas, rivers, and mountains. It also looks at things that happen, like tides, storms, and earthquakes. People who study geography are called geographers. They use maps to help them understand the world. Maps show where things are. Some geographers study the natural world, like mountains and rivers. Other geographers study people, like how many people live in a place or what they do.
Ganges\n\nThe Ganges is a very big river in India. It starts high up in the mountains from a big ice block called a glacier. The river flows through many towns and cities. Many people live near the Ganges. They use its water for farming and fishing. The Ganges is special to many people because they think it is holy. They believe bathing in the river can clean away bad things. Some people keep its water in their homes. The river has many boats and people go rafting on it for fun. But the river also gets dirty because some people throw trash into it, which can make people sick.
Injury\n\nAn injury is a hurt on your body. It happens when something outside your body hurts you. You can get an injury by accident, like falling down or bumping into something. Sometimes a person hurts another on purpose, but that is not nice. A cut, a bruise, or a broken bone are all kinds of injuries. When you get an injury, it can hurt and you might need a bandage or help from a grown-up.
Silicon Valley\n\nSilicon Valley is a place in California, in the United States. It is where many smart people make computers and other high-tech things. Long ago, the land had many fruit trees. Then people started building companies that make computer parts. Some of the first companies started in a garage. Today, many big computer companies are in Silicon Valley. People from all over the world visit to see the technology.
E-mail\n\nE-mail is a way to send letters over the Internet. You need a computer or phone to use it. The letters go very fast, even to faraway places. It is usually free to send e-mail. Sometimes people get unwanted e-mail, which is called spam. Some e-mail programs can stop spam. You can send e-mail from websites like Gmail or Yahoo. E-mail addresses look like name@place.com.
Stage (theatre)\n\nA stage is a special place in a theater where actors stand and act out a story. The people watching sit in front of the stage. The stage can have lights, curtains, and things like tables or chairs to help tell the story. Sometimes the stage is high up so everyone can see.
Sonnet\n\nA sonnet is a special kind of poem. It has 14 lines that rhyme in a pattern. The first sonnets were made a long time ago in Italy. Many poets wrote sonnets about love. William Shakespeare wrote very famous sonnets in English. Some sonnets tell a story. The last two lines often finish the poem with a rhyming pair. Some sonnets have a turn in the middle where the feeling changes. Poets still write sonnets today, but they sometimes change the old rules.
Mount Kenya\n\nMount Kenya is a very tall mountain in Africa. It is the highest mountain in Kenya and the second highest in all of Africa. Long ago, it was a volcano that is now asleep. Mount Kenya sits right on the equator, which is an imaginary line around the middle of Earth. It is northeast of a big city called Nairobi. The top of Mount Kenya is covered with snow and ice.
South Sudan\n\nSouth Sudan is a country in East Africa. It is a landlocked country, which means it does not touch the ocean. South Sudan used to be part of another country called Sudan, but it became its own country in 2011. Many people there are young. The main language is English, and most people are Christian. The country has oil and wood from trees. South Sudan is very poor and has had wars that hurt the country.
Lace\n\nLace is a special kind of cloth with lots of little holes in it. The holes make pretty patterns. Lace is very light and airy. People make lace by hand or with a machine. They use knitting, crocheting, or weaving to make it. Lace has frills and looks fancy. You might see lace on a dress or a tablecloth.
Impala\n\nAn impala is a medium-sized animal that lives in Africa. It has reddish-brown fur, white on its belly and chin, and black marks on its legs and back. Male impalas have curved black horns that look twisted. Female impalas do not have horns. Impalas can jump very far and high, and run very fast to get away from animals that want to eat them. They live near grass and trees, close to water.
Monorail\n\nA monorail is a kind of train that rides on just one rail. Most trains have two rails, but a monorail balances on one. Monorails carry people around cities. Some monorails use magnets to float above the rail, which makes them go very fast. The first monorail was made a long time ago. Monorails are hard to build and cost a lot of money, so not many places have them.
Urinary system\n\nThe urinary system is the part of your body that makes pee and takes it out. Pee is watery waste that your body does not need. Your kidneys are two organs inside you that clean your blood and make pee. The pee goes through thin tubes called ureters into a soft bag called the bladder. When the bladder gets full, you feel like you need to pee. Then the pee goes out of your body through a tube called the urethra. Boys and girls have different urethras. The urinary system works with the parts that help make babies.
Banana\n\nA banana is a fruit that grows on a big plant. The plant looks like a tree but is not a tree. Bananas grow in bunches that hang down. Each banana has a yellow skin you peel off. Inside is soft, sweet, and white. You can eat it as a snack. Bananas grow in warm places like India, Brazil, and China. They are good for you because they have vitamins. Some bananas are green and are used for cooking. Those are called plantains. People also use banana plants to make cloth and paper.
Medieval music\n\nMedieval music is music from a very long time ago, from about 400 to 1400. People back then used music for fun and for church. Some musicians called troubadours or minstrels traveled around singing and playing instruments. They made up their own songs but did not write down the tunes, so we do not know how they sounded. Other musicians worked for one rich person and went with them to battles. Minstrels also sang long story songs called ballads. People danced in lines or circles to music. Some instruments were quiet and used inside, like the recorder and harp. Others were loud and used outside, like bagpipes. Church music was very serious, and only singing was allowed at first. Later, organs and bells were used. Carols became popular, and people sang them at Christmas. We know about medieval music from a few written pieces that survived.
Dignity\n\nDignity is a feeling that every person is important and should be treated nicely. All people are born free and should be kind to each other. Sometimes people are not treated with dignity, and that is not fair. Everyone deserves to be treated with care and respect.
El Salvador\n\nEl Salvador is a small country in Central America. It is next to Honduras, Guatemala, and the Pacific Ocean. The capital city is San Salvador. About 6 million people live there. El Salvador has only two seasons: a dry season with no rain and a rainy season when it rains every day. The country has many volcanoes and rivers. There are also many birds, butterflies, and sea turtles. El Salvador was the first country in the world to use Bitcoin as money.
Alloy\n\nAn alloy is a mix of two or more things, and at least one of them is a metal. To make an alloy, people melt the metals, stir them together, and let them cool until they become hard. An alloy can be stronger or different from the metals it is made from. For example, steel is an alloy made from iron, and it is stronger than iron. A long time ago, people made an alloy called bronze from copper and tin. They used bronze to make tools and weapons. Now, bronze is used for making statues and bells. Brass is another alloy made from copper and zinc.
Interior design\n\nInterior design is about making rooms inside buildings nice and easy to live in. People who do this job are called interior designers. They pick colors for walls, choose furniture, and decide where things go. They also think about lights and sounds. Interior designers help make homes, offices, stores, and hospitals feel good. They talk to people to find out what they like and need. Then they make a plan and show pictures of how the room will look. Good interior design makes a space pretty and useful.
Cranberry\n\nA cranberry is a small red fruit. It grows on a low bush that stays green all year. The bush has thin stems and tiny leaves. Cranberries grow in wet, muddy places called bogs. They live in cold parts of the world like North America and Europe. People eat cranberries at special dinners like Thanksgiving and Christmas. You can drink cranberry juice or eat cranberry sauce. The fruit tastes a little sour, so people often add sugar to make it yummy.
Fishing\n\nFishing is when people try to catch fish. You can fish in the sea, a lake, or a river. You can fish from a boat or from the shore. People use different things to catch fish, like a fishing rod with a line and a hook, or a net. Some people fish for money, and that can be a dangerous job. They go far into the ocean to catch many fish. Other people fish for fun, which is called sport fishing. Sometimes fishermen let the fish go after catching it, to help keep fish safe. But fishing too much can be bad because there may not be enough fish left.
Denali\n\nDenali is a very tall mountain in Alaska. It is the highest mountain in the United States and all of North America. The mountain is covered with snow and ice. It is very cold at the top. People who climb mountains try to reach the top of Denali, but it is a hard climb. The mountain is in a big park where animals like bears and moose live.
Skink\n\nA skink is a small lizard. Skinks have very short legs and a short neck. Some skinks have no legs at all and move like snakes. Their tails can grow back if they get cut off. Most skinks are only as long as a ruler. They like to dig and live underground. Skinks use their tongues to smell the air and find food. They eat bugs like worms, slugs, and cockroaches. Some skinks also eat fruit and vegetables.
Role-playing game\n\nA role-playing game is a game where you pretend to be a character in a made-up world. You can play with friends around a table or on a computer. One person called the game master tells the story and plays all the other people and monsters. You try to do hard things, and sometimes you roll dice to see if you succeed. As you play, your character gets better at things. Some people dress up and act out their character, like in a play.
Swallowtail butterfly\n\nA swallowtail butterfly is a big, pretty butterfly with bright colors. It has wings that look like a swallow bird's tail. These butterflies live in warm places all over the world, except very cold places like Antarctica. Some of them are the biggest butterflies in the world. They fly around flowers and drink sweet juice from them.
Sense\n\nA sense is a way your body learns about the world around you. People have six senses: seeing with your eyes, hearing with your ears, smelling with your nose, tasting with your tongue, touching with your skin, and feeling where your body is in space. Some animals have other senses, like fish that can feel water moving around them.
Niagara Falls\n\nNiagara Falls is a big waterfall on the border between the United States and Canada. It is made of three waterfalls: the Horseshoe Falls, the American Falls, and the Bridal Veil Falls. The Horseshoe Falls is the biggest and looks like a horse's shoe. Many people visit Niagara Falls because it is beautiful and very wide. The water falls down with a loud roar and makes a lot of mist. At night, lights shine on the falls and make them look colorful.
Pencil\n\nA pencil is a tool for writing and drawing on paper. The inside of a pencil is made of a special black material called graphite, which is mixed with clay. The outside is made of wood. You hold the pencil and rub the tip on paper to make marks. You can erase pencil marks with an eraser. Some pencils have an eraser on the end. Pencils can be different shapes, like round or with six flat sides. Colored pencils have colorful insides instead of black graphite. People use pencils in school, at home, and at work.
Karaoke\n\nKaraoke is when you sing along to music that has no words. The music comes from a machine, and the words show up on a screen so you can read them. People do karaoke for fun with their friends. It started in Japan a long time ago.
Jujutsu\n\nJujutsu is a way of fighting from long ago in Japan. It does not use swords or other weapons. People who do jujutsu learn how to throw someone down, hold them still, and stop them from moving. A long time ago, warriors called samurai used jujutsu when they did not have their swords. Today, people still practice jujutsu for fun and to stay strong.
Impartiality\n\nImpartiality means being fair and not picking one side over another. In court, judges and juries must be impartial. They cannot like one person more than the other. They listen to both sides and decide what is true. This helps make sure everyone gets a fair chance.
Nicaragua\n\nNicaragua is a country in Central America. It is next to El Salvador, Honduras, and Costa Rica. The big water on one side is the Pacific Ocean, and on the other side is the Caribbean Sea. The biggest city is Managua. Many different kinds of people live there. Most people speak Spanish. Some people speak other languages like Miskito or English Creole. Baseball is the most popular sport, not soccer. Nicaragua has warm weather, volcanoes, and many animals. People like to visit Nicaragua to see these things.
Twin\n\nTwins are two babies that are born at the same time. They grow together inside their mom before they are born. There are two kinds of twins. Fraternal twins are like regular brothers and sisters who are born together. They can look different and can be a boy and a girl. Identical twins come from one egg that splits into two. They look very much alike because they have the same genes. Some animals like cats, sheep, and cows can also have twins.
Tamarind\n\nTamarind is a tree that grows in Africa. Its fruit tastes very sour. People use the fruit as a spice to make food sour, like in some recipes.
World peace\n\nWorld peace is when everyone in the world is happy and safe. It means no fighting between countries and no hurting each other. People who want world peace try to help everyone get along. Many people hope for world peace so that all children can grow up without being scared.
Anchovy\n\nAn anchovy is a small fish that lives in the ocean. It has a green body with a shiny silver stripe along its side. Anchovies swim together in big groups called schools. They eat tiny floating plants and animals called plankton. Many bigger fish, birds, and sea animals eat anchovies for food. People also eat anchovies. They are very salty and have a strong taste. You can find them on pizza or in salads. Anchovies are often sold in small cans or jars.
Industrialisation\n\nIndustrialisation is when a country starts using machines to do work that people used to do by hand. Before, people made things one at a time, like a shoe maker making one whole shoe. After industrialisation, many people work in factories, and each person does just one small job, like cutting the shoe's bottom or sewing it. Machines help them make many more things much faster. This made towns grow bigger because people moved from farms to work in factories. Industrialisation started in England a long time ago and then spread to other countries.
Red algae\n\nRed algae are plants that live in water. They are red because they have a special color inside them. Most red algae grow in the ocean near warm shores. Some live in rivers and lakes. People use red algae to make a food called nori, which is the green paper wrapped around sushi. Red algae are big and have many cells. They can make their own food from sunlight, just like other plants.
Watermelon\n\nA watermelon is a big, sweet fruit that grows on a vine. It has a hard green outside called the rind, and a soft red or pink inside with little brown seeds. Some watermelons have yellow inside, and some have no seeds at all. The inside tastes sweet because it has sugar. People eat watermelon on hot days to feel cool. The green rind is not usually eaten, but it can be cooked. Watermelons can be round or long like a ball. In Japan, farmers grow watermelons in fun shapes like hearts and squares. Watermelon is good for you because it has vitamins that help your body stay strong.
Capybara\n\nA capybara is a big animal that lives in South America. It is the biggest rodent in the world. A capybara looks like a giant guinea pig. It has brown or reddish-brown fur. It has webbed feet and can swim very well. Its eyes, ears, and nose are on top of its head so it can see and breathe while swimming. Capybaras eat grass and live near rivers or in wet grasslands. They live in groups of 10 to 30. They make sounds like clicks, grunts, whistles, and barks. Baby capybaras are born in litters of four. They drink milk from their mothers and start eating grass when they are one week old. Many animals like jaguars and eagles eat capybaras. People sometimes keep capybaras as pets.
Cichlid\n\nA cichlid is a kind of fish. There are many, many kinds of cichlids, more than 2500. Some cichlids are very small, and some are as long as a big ruler. Cichlid parents take care of their babies. Some cichlids keep their eggs safe in their mouth. Many cichlids live in big lakes in Africa.
Election\n\nAn election is a way people choose who will be in charge. In many countries, grown-ups go to a special place to vote. They pick the person they want to lead them. Sometimes they vote for a group of people called a party. After everyone votes, the person with the most votes wins. Elections happen every few years. In some places, you can vote when you are 18 years old. In a few countries, you can vote at 16. Voting is important because it lets people have a say in how things are run.
Aloe\n\nAloe is a plant with thick, juicy leaves. The most famous kind is called Aloe vera. People grow it in pots inside their homes. The leaves hold water inside, so the plant can live in dry places. If you cut a leaf, a clear gel comes out. This gel can be put on dry or sore skin to make it feel better. Aloe vera is safe for all skin types and does not sting.
Memory\n\nMemory is how your brain keeps things you have learned or seen. It is like a special box in your head that holds onto stories, songs, and faces. There are two kinds of memory. One kind keeps things for a little while, like a phone number you just heard. The other kind keeps things for a very long time, like how to ride a bike or the name of your best friend. Without memory, you could not learn new things or remember fun times.
Diplomacy\n\nDiplomacy is how countries talk to each other. People called diplomats do this job. They help countries make agreements, like promises to be friends or to trade toys and food. Sometimes they talk about how to stop fighting. Diplomats use kind and polite words. An ambassador is a special diplomat who lives in another country to help with talking.
Stadium\n\nA stadium is a big building where many people go to watch games. People watch football and races there. Sometimes a company pays to put its name on the stadium, like Comerica Park. A small stadium inside a building is called an arena. People go to arenas for sports and music shows.
Animal colour\n\nAnimal color is the way light bounces off an animal's body. Animals have colors to help them stay safe. Some animals use color to hide from animals that want to eat them. This is called camouflage. Other animals use bright colors to scare away animals that want to eat them. For example, a butterfly might have big spots that look like eyes to frighten a bird. Animals get their colors from tiny things in their skin called pigments. The colors help animals find food and find friends to have babies with. Over a long time, animals with the best colors for staying safe have more babies, and that is why animals look the way they do.
History of Spain\n\nSpain is a country in Europe. A long time ago, different groups of people lived there, like the Romans and the Visigoths. Then people from Africa called Muslims came and ruled for many years. In 1492, the Christians took back the last part of Spain. That same year, Spain sent Christopher Columbus on a boat trip. He found new lands across the ocean, which became the Americas. Spain took a lot of gold from those lands and became very rich. But many native people were hurt or died. Later, Spain had wars and a dictator named Franco. After Franco died, Spain became a democracy and now works with other countries.
Computer monitor\n\nA computer monitor is a screen that shows you what your computer is doing. It looks like a small TV, but it cannot change channels like a TV can. The screen can show very small letters and tiny pictures clearly. You look at the monitor to see games, videos, and words.
Brain stem\n\nThe brain stem is a small part of your brain at the back. It is very important because it connects your brain to the rest of your body. The brain stem helps you do things without thinking, like breathing, making your heart beat, and sweating. It also helps you move your face and neck. Even though it is tiny, you need it to live.
Gaur\n\nA gaur is a very big animal that looks like a bison. It is the biggest kind of cow that lives in the wild. Gaurs live in South Asia and Southeast Asia. They have big bodies and short horns that curve a little. A baby gaur is called a calf. The mother gaur leaves the herd to have her baby. The calf can walk just a few minutes after it is born. The mother takes good care of her calf. After a few days, they go back to the herd. Gaurs are big and strong, and they eat grass and plants.
Amsterdam\n\nAmsterdam is a big city in the Netherlands. It is the capital of that country. Amsterdam is famous for its canals, which are like water streets. Many people live there from all over the world. The city has a big airport called Schiphol. Long ago, people built a dam in the river Amstel, and that is how the city got its name. The city is very old and has many houses on wooden poles. Today, Amsterdam is a place where many different people live together.
Disco\n\nDisco is a kind of music that people like to dance to. It was very popular a long time ago, in the 1970s. The music has a strong beat that makes you want to move your body. People dance to disco music at special places called disco clubs. These clubs have a big dance floor and colorful lights that flash with the music. There is also a shiny ball with mirrors that spins and makes sparkles on the walls and dancers. People wear fun clothes to go disco dancing, like shiny shirts and tight pants. A famous movie called "Saturday Night Fever" showed people doing disco dances. Disco music is still fun to listen to today.
Genealogy\n\nGenealogy is learning about your family from long ago. It is like a puzzle where you find out who your parents, grandparents, and great-grandparents were. Many people do this as a fun hobby. You can draw a family tree with lines to show how everyone is connected. Some people use a computer to keep track of names, birthdays, and where people lived. You can also save old photos and stories that your family tells. Learning about your family helps you know where you come from.
Embarrassment\n\nEmbarrassment is a feeling people can have. It can feel bad. You might feel embarrassed if you think you did something wrong or broke a rule. Sometimes you feel embarrassed even when someone says something nice about you. When you feel embarrassed, your face might turn red if your skin is light. You might sweat, smile, or hide your face.
Dalian\n\nDalian is a big city in China. It sits next to the sea and has a port where ships come and go. Ships bring things from other countries like Russia, Japan, and Korea. The port stays open all year because the water does not freeze. Long ago, Russia and Japan both wanted to control this city.
Hip hop\n\nHip hop is a kind of music and art that started in the 1970s in a place called The Bronx in New York City. It was made by people from different backgrounds. Hip hop music has a beat made by a drum machine, and a person called a rapper says words in a rhythm that rhymes. The words often tell about life in big cities. Hip hop also has a special way of dressing, like baggy pants and big shirts, a dance called breakdancing, and painting on walls called graffiti. Some famous hip hop musicians are LL Cool J, Snoop Dogg, Jay-Z, Eminem, and Lil Wayne. Rapping is like talking with a beat, and it started from a Jamaican tradition called 'toasting'. In the 1980s, some rappers made songs about tough street life, called gangsta rap. The fastest rapper is Twista, who can say many words very quickly.
Deer\n\nA deer is a wild animal with four long legs and a short tail. Most male deer have antlers on their heads, which are like hard branches that fall off and grow back every year. Deer live in forests and grassy places in many parts of the world. They eat grass, leaves, mushrooms, and small branches. A baby deer is called a fawn, and it has white spots on its back to help it hide. Deer can run very fast and jump high. They are always watching and listening for danger. The most famous make-believe deer is Bambi.
Frigatebird\n\nA frigatebird is a big bird that lives near the ocean. It has very long wings and can fly for a long time without stopping. The frigatebird has a red pouch on its neck that it puffs up to look big. It eats fish but does not like to get its feathers wet. Sometimes it chases other birds to steal their food.
Persian Gulf\n\nThe Persian Gulf is a big body of salt water in the Middle East. It sits between Iran and the Arabian Peninsula. The water is not very deep, and it is full of fish and beautiful coral reefs. Many pearl oysters live deep in the water. People find pearls there. Many countries touch the Persian Gulf, like Iran, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and Kuwait. Big ships carry oil from this area to other places. The water connects to the Gulf of Oman through a narrow part called the Strait of Hormuz.
Wind instrument\n\nA wind instrument is a thing you blow into to make music. Some wind instruments are made of metal, like a trumpet or a tuba. Others are made of wood, like a flute or a clarinet. When you blow air into them, they make different sounds. You can play high notes or low notes by covering holes or pressing buttons. People play wind instruments in bands and orchestras.
Soup\n\nSoup is a kind of food that people make by boiling things in water. You can put vegetables like carrots and potatoes in soup. You can also put meat in soup. The water in soup is called broth. Some soups are thick like stew, and some are thin. People eat soup warm, often with bread or toast. A favorite soup is tomato soup with grilled cheese.
Latin American literature\n\nLatin American literature is stories and poems written by people who live in Latin America. They write in Spanish or Portuguese. Some stories mix real things with magic, like a girl who flies or a town where it rains flowers. This is called magic realism. Many writers wrote about being alone, missing home, and remembering their families. Some famous writers are Jorge Luis Borges, Gabriel García Márquez, and Pablo Neruda. They wrote books and poems that people all over the world love to read. Some women writers, like Gabriela Mistral and Isabel Allende, wrote about children, love, and magic.
Underwear\n\nUnderwear are clothes you wear under your other clothes, right next to your skin. They keep your outer clothes clean from sweat. Some underwear helps hold parts of your body in place. In cold weather, long underwear keeps you warm. Boys and men often wear boxers or briefs. Girls and women often wear bras and panties. Some people wear special underwear for sports. You can also wear some underwear as pajamas or swimsuits.
Checkers\n\nCheckers is a game you play on a board with squares. Two people play. One has dark pieces, and one has light pieces. You move your pieces across the board. You can take the other player's piece by jumping over it. If you can jump, you must jump. The game ends when one player takes all the other player's pieces or blocks them so they cannot move. Some people call it 'draughts.'
Fraction\n\nA fraction is a part of something whole. If you cut a pizza into four pieces and take one piece, you have one fourth of the pizza. Fractions help us share things fairly. They are written with a number on top and a number on the bottom, like 1/2 or 3/4.
Torpedo\n\nA torpedo is a big, fast thing that moves underwater all by itself. It has a propeller that spins to push it through the water. A torpedo carries a big bang inside. When it hits a boat or a ship, it goes boom. Torpedoes can be shot from boats that go underwater, called submarines, or from boats on top of the water, and even from helicopters and airplanes. A man named Robert Whitehead made the first torpedo a long time ago, in 1866.
Moss\n\nMoss is a tiny green plant that grows in soft, fuzzy patches. It does not have roots or flowers. Moss soaks up water like a sponge, so it lives in wet places like near rivers, springs, or where it rains a lot. When it dries out, it can stop growing and wait for water. Moss does not make seeds. Instead, it makes tiny dust-like spores that float away to grow new moss. The biggest moss is only as tall as a ruler.
Public health\n\nPublic health is about keeping many people healthy, not just one person. It helps stop sickness from spreading. People in public health teach us to wash our hands and get shots to stay well. They also make sure the water we drink is clean. Long ago, people learned that dirty water can make everyone sick. Today, public health workers help stop diseases like the flu and help people live longer. They work in many countries to keep communities safe and healthy.
Chivalry\n\nChivalry is a word that means being kind and polite, especially when a man is nice to a woman. A long time ago, it was about knights on horses. Knights were brave and helped people. Today, if someone is chivalrous, they hold the door open or help others.
Swift\n\nA swift is a bird that is very good at flying. It spends almost all its time in the air. Swifts have long, curved wings and a tail that looks like a V. They are small birds and can fly very fast. Swifts catch bugs while flying. They have very small, weak feet. Swifts use their feet to hold onto walls or cliffs. They do not like to land on the ground. Swifts live all over the world. They like warm places and fly to different places each year. Swifts make nests out of mud and spit. Some swifts make nests only from spit. People in Asia use those nests to make soup.
Strawberry\n\nA strawberry is a small, sweet, red fruit that grows on a short plant. The tiny dots on the outside are the real fruits, and the red part we eat is the plant's stem that got big and sweet. Strawberries taste yummy and are good for you because they have vitamin C. People grow strawberries on farms, and bees help the flowers make the fruit. The plant makes long stems called runners that grow new plants.
Pear\n\nA pear is a fruit that grows on a tree. It is shaped like a teardrop and has a green, red, yellow, or brown skin. Pears are juicy and taste best when they are cool. You can eat them fresh, bake them, or make them into jam, jelly, or juice. Pears are mostly water. The tree has dark green leaves and pink or white flowers. Pear trees can live for about 65 years.
Game show\n\nA game show is a TV show where people play a game to win money or prizes. The players answer questions or do fun challenges. Some game shows have one player against another. Other game shows have teams. Sometimes regular people play, and sometimes famous people play. The winners can get money, a car, or a trip. Many game shows are on a channel called the Game Show Network. The first game shows were on the radio.
Hygiene\n\nHygiene is about keeping your body clean. You wash your hands and body to get rid of dirt and germs. You brush your teeth to keep them clean and strong. Using the toilet the right way and wearing clean clothes are also part of hygiene. When you learn to be clean when you are little, it becomes a habit. If you do not keep clean, you might smell bad, get sick, or lose your teeth.
Work (physics)\n\nWork in physics is what a force does when it moves something. If you push a toy car and it rolls, you are doing work. If you push a wall and it does not move, no work is done. Work is bigger when you push harder or move something farther. When you lift a book up, you do work. When you hold a book still, you are not doing work. Work is measured in something called joules.
Battle-axe\n\nA battle-axe is a kind of axe that people used long ago in fights. It looks like a big tool with a sharp metal head on a long wooden stick. Some battle-axes were small enough to hold in one hand, and some were so big that people had to use both hands. They were heavy, from about as heavy as a bag of sugar to as heavy as a big bag of potatoes. People used them to chop and hit in battles. Axes were cheaper and easier to find than swords, so many soldiers used them.
Extinction\n\nExtinction is when a kind of animal or plant is all gone and no more are alive. This happens to every kind of living thing sooner or later. It can happen because the place where they live gets destroyed, or because people hunt them too much. An example is the Dodo bird, which is gone because people hunted it. Dinosaurs are also extinct. Some animals are in danger of becoming extinct, and we call them endangered. People can help by not cutting down forests where animals live.
Ginseng\n\nGinseng is a plant that grows very slowly. It has a thick, soft root that looks like a little person. Ginseng grows in cool places in Asia, like China and Korea. People use the root to make tea or medicine.
Woodworking\n\nWoodworking is a skill where people make things out of wood. You can cut wood or make it smooth with sandpaper. There are many kinds of wood, like softwood and hardwood. People use tools like saws to cut wood and sandpaper to make it smooth. You have to be careful and wear safety goggles so your eyes stay safe. Some kids learn woodworking in school.
Silk Road\n\nThe Silk Road was a very long path that connected China to faraway places like the Middle East and Europe. People used it to trade things with each other. The most special thing they traded was silk, which is a soft, shiny cloth that was only made in China. Silk was very rare and expensive in Europe, so having it showed you were rich and important. Traders also brought other things like chess pieces from India to China. Most traders did not travel the whole road alone. They would trade goods at stops along the way. The Silk Road helped people share ideas about art, food, and religion too.
Liver\n\nThe liver is a part inside your body, near your tummy. It works like a little factory. It cleans bad things out of your blood. It helps you digest food. If the liver gets sick, your skin and eyes can turn yellow. That is called jaundice. Some liver sickness can be fixed with medicine. Sometimes a doctor has to put a new liver inside you. That is called a transplant. People also eat liver from animals. It is a kind of meat.
Bumblebee\n\nA bumblebee is a big, fuzzy bee that flies from flower to flower. It has a round body covered in soft hairs, and it can be black, yellow, red, or white. Bumblebees live in small groups called colonies, with a queen bee and worker bees. The queen starts a new nest in the spring, often underground in an old mouse hole. Worker bees collect pollen and nectar from flowers to feed the baby bees. Bumblebees can fly very high, even higher than tall mountains. They have a sting but only use it if they feel very scared. Unlike honeybees, a bumblebee can sting more than once. Some bumblebees are called cuckoo bees because they take over other bumblebees' nests.
Fossil\n\nA fossil is the remains of a very old plant or animal that lived a long, long time ago. Fossils are found in rocks. They look like bones, shells, or footprints that have turned into stone. It takes many thousands of years for a fossil to form. The hard parts of animals, like bones and shells, make the best fossils. Dinosaur bones are famous fossils that you can see in museums. Some fossils are tiny and can only be seen with a special tool. People study fossils to learn about animals and plants that lived long ago.
Katana\n\nA katana is a long sword from Japan. Samurai warriors used it a long time ago. The katana has a curved blade that is very sharp on one side. It is made from special steel that is folded many times to make it strong. Samurai wore the katana on their left side, with the blade facing up. They could pull it out fast to cut or stab. The katana was very important to samurai. They thought it held the soul of its owner. Only samurai were allowed to have a katana. Today, people practice using a katana in martial arts like kendo.
Circle\n\nA circle is a round shape. It is flat, like a plate or a coin. Every point on the edge of a circle is the same distance from the middle. The middle is called the center. A line from the center to the edge is called the radius. A line all the way across through the center is called the diameter. The diameter is two times the radius. The line around the circle is called the circumference. The number pi (say "pie") is special. It is about 3.14. You can use pi to find how far around or how much space is inside a circle.
Truth\n\nTruth is what is real and correct. If something is true, it really happened or it really is that way. If something is not true, it is false or made up. When you say something that is true, you are telling the truth. When you say something you know is not true, that is a lie. A person who tells lies is called a liar. Sometimes people mix a little truth with a lie, and that is called a half truth. True things exist; false things do not.
Alternative medicine\n\nAlternative medicine is a way people try to get better that is different from the medicine doctors use. Some people use it along with regular medicine. It includes things like putting tiny needles in the skin, or using very small amounts of plants. But alternative medicine does not make sick people well. Regular medicine that doctors use has been tested and is proven to work.
Mouth\n\nYour mouth is an opening in your face. It is where food goes in to be chewed. Your teeth help chew the food into small pieces. Your tongue helps you taste and move food around. Your mouth also helps you talk and make sounds. You use your lips and tongue to say words. People also use their mouths to kiss and show how they feel.
Museum of Modern Art\n\nThe Museum of Modern Art is a big building in New York City where people go to see new kinds of art. It is on 53rd Street. The museum shows paintings and sculptures made by famous artists like Vincent van Gogh and Andy Warhol. Some of the art looks like splashes of paint or bright colors. Many people visit the museum to look at the pictures and learn about art.
Mount Fuji\n\nMount Fuji is the tallest mountain in Japan. It is a volcano, but it has not erupted for a very long time. The last time it erupted was a long time ago, in the years 1707 to 1708. Many people climb Mount Fuji every summer. The best time to climb is from July 25 to August 25. At the very top of the mountain, there is a post office that is open only in summer. It is the highest post office in Japan. Mount Fuji is very famous, and many artists have painted pictures of it. It is a special place for the Shinto religion, and there are small temples at the bottom of the mountain.
Dung beetle\n\nA dung beetle is a bug that eats poop from animals like cows and horses. Some dung beetles roll the poop into a ball and push it away. They use the poop ball for food or to lay their eggs inside. Other dung beetles dig a hole and bury the poop where they find it. Some just live in the poop. Dung beetles are very strong. A male dung beetle can pull more than one thousand times its own weight. That is like you pulling six big buses full of people! Dung beetles live in many places like farms, forests, and deserts. They do not like very cold weather. They use their nose to find poop. Some dung beetles even use moonlight to help them roll their ball in a straight line. When a dung beetle has a poop ball, other beetles may try to steal it. So the beetle must roll away fast. Baby dung beetles hatch from eggs inside the poop ball and eat the poop until they grow up.
Tent\n\nA tent is a small house made of cloth that you can take with you. It keeps you safe from wind, rain, and cold. The cloth is held up by sticks or poles and tied to the ground with ropes and little stakes. People use tents when they go camping or hiking. Big tents are used for parties or circuses. Some people sleep in tents when they have no other place to stay.
Great Zimbabwe\n\nGreat Zimbabwe is an old city in Africa that is now broken and empty. Long ago, it was a big and important city where a king lived. The city was built with tall stone walls, and the stones were stacked together without any sticky stuff like glue. Some walls were taller than a grown-up. Many people lived there, maybe as many as 18,000. The people who lived there traded with faraway places, and they had things from China. The country of Zimbabwe got its name from this old city. Today, people visit Great Zimbabwe to see the old stone walls and learn about how people lived long ago.
Giza\n\nGiza is a city in Egypt. It sits next to a big river called the Nile. Many people live there. Giza is famous for the Giza Plateau, where you can see very old and big stone buildings. The biggest one is the Great Pyramid of Giza. There is also a giant statue called the Great Sphinx. These were built a long, long time ago by the ancient Egyptians. Many people visit Giza to see these amazing old buildings.
Weighing scale\n\nA weighing scale is a machine that tells you how heavy something is. To use an old scale, you put the thing you want to weigh on one side and add heavy stones on the other side until both sides are even. Then you know the weight. New scales are easier: you just put the item on top, and the number shows up on a screen or a dial. Some scales can even count small things like screws by weighing them.
Secret society\n\nA secret society is a group of people who meet in secret. No one outside the group knows what they do. Some people think a secret society called the Illuminati used to exist a long time ago. Some people still believe it is around today, but there is no proof.
Bangladesh\n\nBangladesh is a country in South Asia. It is next to India and Myanmar. Many, many people live there. The capital city is Dhaka. People in Bangladesh speak Bengali. The country has big rivers and a large forest. Bangladesh used to be part of Pakistan, but it became its own country in 1971 after a war. Now it has its own government and leaders. The weather is hot and rainy. Rice grows well there.
Communication\n\nCommunication is how people share ideas and feelings with each other. You can talk to someone, smile, or wave your hand. Even animals communicate, like a dog wagging its tail. Sometimes people send messages without thinking, like when they stand a certain way. For communication to work, both people need to understand the same words. A word can mean different things, so you have to be careful. Good communication means being clear and listening well.
Yarn\n\nYarn is a long, thin string made of soft fibers. People use yarn to make clothes like hats, scarves, and socks. You can knit or crochet with yarn to make things. Yarn comes in many colors and thicknesses. Some yarn is thin like thread, and some is thick and fluffy. Yarn can be made from wool from sheep, cotton from plants, or other soft materials. It is often sold in a round bundle called a skein so it does not get tangled.
Broadway theatre\n\nBroadway theatre is a place in New York City where people put on plays and shows. There are 41 big theatres there, each with more than 500 seats. The shows have actors, music, and dancing. Many people go to see them. Broadway is one of the most famous places for live shows in the world.
The Thinker\n\nThe Thinker is a statue made of bronze. It shows a man sitting down and thinking very hard. His arm is bent on his leg, and his chin rests on his hand. A man named Auguste Rodin made this statue a long time ago. He first called it "The Poet." The statue was part of a big door with many other statues. The man in the statue is thinking about a poem. Many copies of The Thinker are in museums all over the world. Some copies are bigger than the first one.
Work\n\nWork is something you do to get something done. When your mom or dad goes to a job, that is work. When you help clean up your toys, that is work too. Work can be hard or easy. Sometimes work is fun, like making a drawing. Sometimes work is tiring, like carrying heavy things. People work to earn money to buy food and clothes. Even animals work, like a dog that helps a farmer.
Cricket\n\nCricket is a sport played outside on a big grassy field. Two teams of eleven players take turns. One team hits the ball with a bat, and the other team throws the ball and tries to catch it. The hitter tries to hit the ball far away and run to score points called runs. The thrower tries to hit a wooden thing called a wicket. If the wicket gets hit, the hitter is out. The team with the most runs wins. Players wear special clothes to stay safe, like pads on their legs and a helmet on their head. Cricket is very popular in many countries like England, Australia, and India.
Brooklyn Bridge\n\nThe Brooklyn Bridge is a very old bridge in New York City. It goes over a big river called the East River. The bridge connects two parts of the city: Manhattan and Brooklyn. It is long and hangs from strong ropes. Many people walk or drive across it every day. The bridge is a famous landmark, which means many people know about it and visit it.
Humanities\n\nHumanities are about people and how they think, feel, and make things. They include stories, music, painting, and history. People who study humanities learn about different languages, old and new ideas, and how people lived long ago. They also learn about plays, dancing, and art. Humanities help us understand each other better.
Snack\n\nA snack is a small amount of food you eat between meals. You might eat a snack when you are hungry but it is not time for breakfast, lunch, or dinner. Some snacks are potato chips, fruit, candy, muffins, ice cream, and popcorn. Many people buy snacks that come in bags or boxes from the store.
Stew\n\nStew is a food that you cook for a long time. It has meat and vegetables in a yummy sauce. You cook it on the stove in a pot. The meat gets very soft. People have made stew for a very long time, even thousands of years ago. Some stews have beef or lamb. Some have carrots and potatoes. Stew is warm and good to eat on a cold day.
Shower\n\nA shower is a place where you stand up and clean your body with water. Water comes out from a shower head above you. You do not wear clothes in the shower. Some showers have water spraying from many sides. You can find a shower in a bathroom. People use it to get clean.
Heat treating\n\nHeat treating is a way to make metal stronger or softer. You heat the metal up very hot, then let it cool down. This changes how the metal feels and works. People do this to make tools, knives, and other things out of metal. Some plastics can also be heat treated. It is like cooking metal to make it just right.
Time travel\n\nTime travel is the idea of going back to the past or forward to the future. We always go forward to the future, but going back to the past is not something we can really do. Many stories and movies talk about time travel. One famous story is 'The Time Machine' by H. G. Wells. Another is the movie 'Back to the Future,' where a professor builds a machine that can take people to the past or future. The TV show 'Doctor Who' is about an alien who travels through time in a spaceship. Some shows use magic instead of machines to travel in time.
Cologne\n\nCologne is a big city in Germany. It sits next to a long river called the Rhine. Many people live there. A long time ago, the Romans built the city. The most famous thing in Cologne is a very big church called the Cologne Cathedral. It has a golden box with the gifts from the Three Wise Men inside. The city has many museums and a big university. People in Cologne speak a special way called Kölsch. Cologne is also known for a special smell called Eau de Cologne.
Chocolate\n\nChocolate is a food made from cacao beans. It can be a solid candy bar or a warm drink like hot chocolate. There are three kinds: white chocolate, milk chocolate, and dark chocolate. White chocolate is very sweet. Milk chocolate is sweet but not as sweet. Dark chocolate is not very sweet and tastes a little bitter. People use chocolate in cakes, pudding, ice cream, and candy. Long ago, people in Mexico made a bitter drink from cacao beans. Only important people could drink it. Later, people added sugar and made it sweet. Now many people all over the world enjoy chocolate. Most cocoa beans today come from Africa. Chocolate is safe to eat, but dogs and cats can get sick if they eat it.
Pampas\n\nThe Pampas is a big, flat piece of land in South America. It is in parts of Argentina, Uruguay, and Brazil. The ground is very low and flat, with some small hills. The weather is warm and not too hot or cold. Many people live there, especially near the big city of Buenos Aires. Long ago, big animals like pumas and deer lived there, but now most of them are gone because people use the land for farms and ranches.
Maize\n\nMaize is a tall plant that grows in many warm places. People also call it corn. It has a long stalk with green leaves and yellow kernels that grow in rows on a cob. People first grew maize a long time ago in Central America. Today, farmers grow lots of maize all over the world. Some people eat sweet corn or popcorn. Most maize is used to feed animals or make things like corn syrup and corn starch. Maize can be ground into flour to make tortillas and cornbread.
Iran\n\nIran is a big country in Asia. It used to be called Persia. The capital city is Tehran. Many people live there, and most of them speak Persian. Iran has tall mountains and dry land. It is famous for beautiful carpets, poems, and old art. The country has a lot of oil and gas. The leader of Iran is called the Supreme Leader. Iran has a long history, and many old things are still there.
Recycling\n\nRecycling is when you take old things like paper, glass, plastic, and cans and turn them into new things. Instead of throwing trash away, you put it in a special bin. Then a truck takes it to a place where it gets cleaned and made into something new. For example, old plastic bottles can become park benches or flower pots. Recycling helps keep the Earth clean and saves energy. The three R's are Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle. Reduce means using less. Reuse means using something again. Recycle means making old things into new things.
Blue\n\nBlue is a color you can see in the sky and in the ocean. It is one of the colors in a rainbow. The sky looks blue during the day. The ocean looks blue too. When people go up in space and look back at Earth, it looks like a big blue ball. Blue can also mean feeling sad, like when someone says they have "the blues." Many boys like the color blue, but girls can like it too.
Mercury (planet)\n\nMercury is a planet. It is the smallest planet in our solar system. It is also the closest planet to the Sun. Mercury looks like our Moon. It has many round holes called craters and flat, smooth areas. Mercury has no moons. It is very hot during the day and very cold at night. Mercury is hard to see from Earth because it is so close to the Sun. You can only see it just after sunset or just before sunrise. Two spaceships have visited Mercury. The first one was Mariner 10, and the second one was MESSENGER. They took pictures of Mercury's surface.
Clove\n\nA clove is a dried flower bud from a tree. It smells strong and is used in cooking. People put whole cloves in ham to give it flavor. Ground cloves are a spice used in India. Cloves come from Indonesia and other warm places. Long ago, cloves were very expensive and worth as much as gold.
Chemistry\n\nChemistry is the science that studies what everything is made of and how it changes. It looks at matter, which is anything that takes up space. Tiny bits called atoms and molecules come together to make everything around us. Chemistry helps us understand why iron gets rusty, how soap cleans our hands, and how food gives us energy. People have used chemistry for a very long time. Long ago, people learned to make fire, cook food, and shape clay into pots. They also learned to get metal from rocks to make tools and jewelry. Today, chemistry helps us make medicine, clean water, and new materials. It is connected to other sciences like physics and biology.
Horse fly\n\nA horse fly is a kind of insect that looks like a big fly. Some are as small as a housefly, and some are as big as a bumblebee. Their eyes are shiny and colorful. The female horse fly bites horses and other animals. The bite can hurt and make the animal feel bad.
Barents Sea\n\nThe Barents Sea is a big body of water in the very cold north. It sits next to Norway and Russia. The sea is named after a man named Willem Barents. Part of the sea stays open all year because warm water comes from the ocean. Many fish live there, like cod and capelin. Big animals like whales and seals eat the fish. People from Norway and Russia catch fish from this sea.
Authoritarianism\n\nAuthoritarianism is a way of running a country where people must do what the leader says without asking questions. The leader has all the power, and people cannot choose what to do or say. There are no votes for the people, and the leader makes all the rules. This is different from places where people can vote and share their ideas.
Scale (zoology)\n\nA scale is a small, hard plate that grows out of an animal's skin to keep it safe. Fish and reptiles have scales all over their bodies. Some insects like butterflies and moths have tiny scales on their wings. These scales can be very colorful and pretty.
Muscat\n\nMuscat is a big city in a country called Oman. It is the capital city, which means the leader of the country lives there. Many people live in Muscat, more than one million. The city is very hot and dry. In summer, the sun makes it very warm. In winter, it is cooler but still not cold. Almost no rain falls there. Muscat is next to the sea, so it has beaches where people can swim and play. There are also old forts, museums, and a big opera house to visit. People come from far away to see the city and have fun.
Monsoon\n\nA monsoon is a wind that blows from the ocean to the land for many months. It brings lots of rain. The land gets very hot, and the hot air goes up. Then cool air from the ocean comes in to take its place. That cool air has water in it, and when it gets to the land, the water falls as rain. Monsoons happen in places like India, where they bring rain for a long time. The rain helps plants grow and fills rivers with water.
Indonesia\n\nIndonesia is a country with many, many islands. It has more than 17,000 islands! The biggest islands are Java, Bali, Kalimantan, Sulawesi, and Sumatra. The capital city is Jakarta, on the island of Java. Indonesia is home to many people—it is the fourth most crowded country in the world. Most people live on the island of Java. The main language is Indonesian, but people also speak many other languages like Javanese and Balinese. Indonesia has lots of volcanoes that can shoot hot lava. It also has earthquakes and big waves called tsunamis. Most people in Indonesia follow the religion of Islam. The country became free from other countries on August 17, 1945, and that day is a big holiday. Indonesia has many different groups of people and many kinds of dances, like the Piring dance from West Sumatra. The national bird is the Javan hawk-eagle. People like to visit Indonesia to see its beautiful nature and learn about its culture.
Economic inequality\n\nEconomic inequality is when some people have a lot more money than other people. It can mean some people can buy good food and live in nice houses, while others cannot.
Concerto\n\nA concerto is a piece of music where one instrument plays a solo part and an orchestra plays along. The solo instrument can be a violin, a piano, or many other instruments. The soloist decides how fast or slow to play, and the orchestra follows. The word "concerto" comes from an Italian word that means "playing together." Some concertos have more than one soloist. A famous set of concertos is called "The Four Seasons" by Vivaldi, with one concerto for each season: spring, summer, autumn, and winter. Many other composers like Mozart and Beethoven wrote concertos too. In a concerto, there is often a part called a cadenza where the soloist plays alone and shows off their skill. Some modern concertos use unusual sounds, like water.
Maldives\n\nThe Maldives are a group of many small islands in the Indian Ocean. They are near India. There are over 1,200 islands, but people live on only about 200 of them. The islands are very flat. In fact, the Maldives is the flattest country in the world. The highest place is only a little bit above the sea. The weather is hot and wet most of the year. There is a dry season and a rainy season. The capital city is called Malé. Many people there are Muslim.
Human migration\n\nHuman migration is when people move from one place to another. Sometimes people choose to move, and sometimes they have to move because of bad things like war, hunger, or storms. People who are forced to move are called refugees. Many refugees are children and women. They may not have enough food, a safe place to sleep, or a doctor. Some people move from the countryside to big cities to find better jobs and schools. But moving can be hard, and some people do not have a home when they arrive. People have been moving from place to place for a very long time.
Lake Nicaragua\n\nLake Nicaragua is a very big lake in a country called Nicaragua. It is the biggest lake in all of Central America. The lake has three islands and two volcanoes inside it. There are also over 400 tiny islands called islets. A river connects this lake to the Caribbean Sea. Another river connects it to a smaller lake called Lake Managua.
Yemen\n\nYemen is a country in the Middle East, on the Arabian Peninsula. It is next to Saudi Arabia and Oman. The Red Sea is on one side, and the Gulf of Aden is on the other. The capital city is Sana'a. Yemen has many mountains and some islands in the sea. The weather is hot and dry in many places. Most people in Yemen speak Arabic. Many children live there, and almost half of the people are younger than 15 years old. Football is the most popular sport. People also like to climb rocks and swim in the sea.
Privacy\n\nPrivacy is when you get to choose what things about you are secret and who knows them. Everyone has some things they want to keep just for themselves. Some people want to keep their beliefs or feelings private so they don't get in trouble. On the internet, some people can see what you do online and even sell that information. For example, someone who sends you an email can sometimes tell when you open it.
Slovakia\n\nSlovakia is a country in the middle of Europe. It does not touch any ocean. The capital city is Bratislava. Slovakia has many mountains, especially the Tatra mountains with the highest peak called Gerlachov Peak. The big rivers are the Danube, Vah, and Hron. The weather is warm in summer and cold and snowy in winter. People in Slovakia use money called Euro. Slovakia is part of the European Union. Long ago, Slovakia was part of a bigger country called Czechoslovakia. In 1993, Slovakia became its own country.
Volcano\n\nA volcano is a mountain that can shoot hot, liquid rock called lava. The lava comes from deep inside the Earth. When a volcano erupts, lava, ash, and steam come out of the top. Some volcanoes are tall and steep, like Mount Fuji. Others are wide and flat, like Mauna Loa in Hawaii. Volcanoes can be awake and erupting, sleeping but could wake up, or dead and never erupt again. The biggest volcano on Earth is under the ocean, near Japan. It is called Tamu Massif.
Kosovo\n\nKosovo is a small country in Europe. It is near Serbia, Albania, North Macedonia, and Montenegro. Kosovo used to be part of Serbia, but in 2008 it said it was its own country. Many other countries agree that Kosovo is a country. Most people in Kosovo speak Albanian. The money they use is called the euro. Kosovo has mountains and flat fields. The weather is cold in the mountains and warm in the south.
Astronaut\n\nAn astronaut is a person who goes into outer space. The first person to go to space was Yuri Gagarin from Russia. The first people to walk on the Moon were Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin from the United States. Astronauts live and work on the International Space Station, which is a big home in space. They wear special suits to stay safe. Astronauts fly to space in rockets. Some rockets are made by the United States, Russia, and China. A company called SpaceX is building a big rocket that could take people to Mars one day.
Civics\n\nCivics is learning about how a country is run. It helps people know how to be good helpers in their town or country. In school, children learn about rules and how people vote. This way, everyone can help make the country fair and safe.
Moon landing\n\nA moon landing is when a spaceship lands on the Moon. The first time people landed on the Moon was in 1969. Two men named Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin walked on the Moon. They wore big suits to stay safe. No one has walked on the Moon since 1972.
Jakarta\n\nJakarta is a big city in Indonesia. It is the capital, which means it is the most important city in the country. Jakarta is on an island called Java, right next to the sea. Many, many people live there — more than ten million! The city is very crowded. Jakarta has a warm, rainy climate. One problem is that the city is slowly sinking into the ground. Because of this, the government decided to move the capital to a different place on another island called Borneo.
Train\n\nA train is a long line of cars that move on tracks. Trains carry people and things from one place to another. Some trains carry people in seats or beds. Other trains carry boxes, food, or big machines. A train stops at a station so people can get on or off. The first trains were pulled by horses. Then steam engines made trains go fast. Today, many trains use diesel or electricity. Some very fast trains float on magnets and go super fast.
Muscle\n\nMuscle is the part of your body that helps you move. Muscles are like stretchy bands inside you. They can get shorter and thicker, and that makes your arms, legs, and other parts move. Some muscles you can control, like the ones in your arms and legs. Those are called skeletal muscles. Other muscles work without you thinking, like the muscle in your heart that pumps blood. When you exercise, your muscles get bigger and stronger. If you do not move much, your muscles get smaller and weaker. All animals have muscles, but plants do not.
Nitrogen\n\nNitrogen is a gas that you cannot see or smell. Most of the air around us is nitrogen. It is in the sky and in the ground. Nitrogen helps plants grow. It is also in the food we eat, like meat and beans. Liquid nitrogen is very, very cold and can freeze things fast. Some bags of chips have nitrogen inside to keep them fresh.
Tropical climate\n\nA tropical climate is a kind of weather that is hot and wet all year. It is always warm, never cold, and snow never falls. Some places with this climate have rain every day, often in the afternoon. Other places have a rainy season and a dry season. The Amazon rainforest is a famous place with a tropical climate. Many different plants and animals live there.
Green iguana\n\nThe green iguana is a lizard that lives in warm places like Central and South America and some islands. It has green skin and a long tail. Green iguanas like to climb trees and eat plants like leaves and flowers. They can be very big for a lizard. You can find them in Florida, Hawaii, and Texas too.
Cockroach\n\nA cockroach is a small insect with six legs and a flat body. Most cockroaches live outside in the dirt and leaves. Only a few kinds of cockroaches come into people's houses. Cockroaches can eat almost anything. They are very tough and hard to kill. A cockroach can live for two weeks without its head. Baby cockroaches grow into adults in about 3 or 4 months. Some cockroaches can live for one whole year. In some places, people eat cockroaches as snacks.
Ottawa\n\nOttawa is a city in Canada. It is the capital, which means the leader of the country works there. Ottawa is in the province of Ontario, next to a big river called the Ottawa River. Many people live in Ottawa. The city has lots of parks, museums, and government buildings. There is a market downtown where people shop. Every year, Ottawa has fun festivals like Winterlude in February, the Tulip Festival in May, and a big party on July 1st for Canada Day. Some sports teams play in Ottawa, like the Ottawa Senators for ice hockey and the Ottawa Redblacks for football. Ottawa gets rain and snow every year.
Swedish language\n\nSwedish is a language that people speak in Sweden and in parts of Finland. More than nine million people speak it. Swedish sounds a lot like Norwegian and Danish, so if you know one, you can understand the others. It is a little like English too, because long ago Vikings came to England. Swedish has three special letters that English does not have: å, ä, and ö. They make different sounds, like the 'o' in 'for' or the 'e' in 'bed'. In Swedish, you add a little word to the end of a noun to say 'the'. For example, 'a house' is 'ett hus', and 'the house' is 'huset'.
Metropolitan Museum of Art\n\nThe Metropolitan Museum of Art is a big place in New York City where you can see many beautiful paintings and statues. It is sometimes called The Met. The Met sits next to a big park called Central Park. Inside, there are more than two million works of art from all over the world. You can see art from long ago, like from Egypt and Europe, and also new art from America and other places. There are also old musical instruments, fancy clothes, and armor that knights used to wear. The Met is very popular, and many people visit it every year. There is another, smaller part of the museum called the Cloisters, which has art from the Middle Ages. When you go to the Met, you can choose to give money to help the museum, but you do not have to.
Colour vision\n\nColor vision is how your eyes see different colors. Your eyes have special parts called cones that help you see red, blue, green, and other colors. When light bounces off a toy or a flower, your eyes tell your brain what color it is. Color vision helps you find ripe fruit to eat and see animals hiding in the grass. At night, it is harder to see colors because there is not enough light. Some animals, like dogs, see fewer colors than people. Other animals, like bees, can see colors that people cannot see, like ultraviolet light.
Coyote\n\nA coyote is a wild dog that lives in North America. It looks like a small wolf with grayish-brown fur, a white belly, and long pointy ears. Coyotes can live in many places like prairies, forests, mountains, and even cities. They eat many things: fruits, grass, rabbits, mice, birds, snakes, and bugs. In cities, they sometimes eat from garbage cans. Coyotes usually hunt alone but may join small groups. They dig tunnels under the ground to make dens where they sleep and have babies. A mother coyote can have up to six pups at a time. Coyotes are scared of wolves, bears, and big cats, but their biggest enemy is people. They rarely hurt people but might eat small pets like cats. In old stories from Native American people, the coyote is a tricky character who plays jokes.
Pinball\n\nPinball is a game you play inside a big box with glass on top. You push buttons to hit a metal ball around the box. The ball bounces off bumpers and lights up things. You try to keep the ball from falling down. If you are good, you can play longer and get more points. A long time ago, some cities said pinball was not allowed. But a very good player showed that pinball is a game of skill, so now people can play it again.
Warship\n\nA warship is a big boat that carries weapons. It is used by the navy to protect the country. Some warships are so big that airplanes can land on them. These are called aircraft carriers. Warships come in many sizes. Big warships never travel alone because they need help from other ships and planes to stay safe. Smaller warships bring food and supplies to the big ones. Some warships have special radios to listen to other ships.
Biofuel\n\nBiofuel is fuel that comes from plants or other living things. It can be solid, liquid, or gas. People use biofuel to power cars, heat homes, and cook food. Some plants like sugar cane and corn can be turned into fuel. Other plants like palm oil and soybeans can also be used. Wood has been used as fuel for a very long time. Biofuel is different from fuel that comes from old dead things underground.
Ulaanbaatar\n\nUlaanbaatar is the biggest city and the capital of Mongolia. It is a very cold city, the coldest capital in the whole world. About half of all the people in Mongolia live there. The city sits in a valley next to a river. It has many museums, temples, and a big library. People can travel to other towns by road or by train. The city was first built a long time ago as a place for monks. Its name means "red hero" in Mongolian.
Star system\n\nA star system is a group of stars that stay together in space. The stars go around each other because they pull on each other. Two stars together are called a binary star. Some star systems have three, four, or even five stars. Most star systems have three stars. The stars in a system can be close together or far apart. A star system is different from a planetary system, which has planets going around a star.
Salamander\n\nA salamander is a small animal that lives in water and on land. It has four legs and a long tail, like a lizard. Baby salamanders hatch from eggs in the water and have gills to breathe. When they grow up, most salamanders live on land in wet places. Some salamanders can grow back a lost leg or tail. They eat bugs and other small creatures. Many salamanders have poison in their skin to keep predators away. Some are bright colors to warn others, and some are hidden colors to blend in.
New Guinea\n\nNew Guinea is a very big island north of Australia. It is the second biggest island in the world. The island has two parts. The east side is a country called Papua New Guinea. The west side belongs to Indonesia. Many different groups of people live there, and they speak over 1000 languages. That is more languages than any other place on Earth. The island has special animals like birds of paradise, wallabies, possums, and echidnas. Echidnas are mammals that lay eggs. There are also small meat-eating animals called quolls. New Guinea is very important for its nature and animals.
Woman\n\nA woman is a grown-up female person. When a female is little, she is called a girl. Women have a body that can grow a baby inside them. They have a special place called a uterus where the baby grows. After the baby is born, women can feed it milk from their breasts. Women are usually shorter than men. Long ago, women could not do many things that men could do, like vote or go to school. Now in many places, women have the same rights as men. Women can be doctors, teachers, and leaders. Some women choose to have babies, and some do not. Every woman is different and special.
Pilgrimage\n\nA pilgrimage is a long trip to a special place. People go to a church or a holy place that is far from their home. They travel to pray or to feel close to God. Sometimes people walk for many days to get there. A pilgrimage is a very important journey for them.
Airplane\n\nAn airplane is a machine that flies in the sky. It has wings and a body that carries people and things. Airplanes can go very fast, much faster than cars or trains. They fly between cities all over the world. Big cities have airports where airplanes take off and land. Some airplanes are very big because they need to carry lots of fuel and people. Most airplanes have a pilot who flies them. Airplanes are safer than cars. The wings are shaped like a bird's wings to help the airplane lift up into the air. Airplanes are used to take people on trips, to carry packages, and by the military.
Mixture\n\nA mixture is when you put two or more things together, like sand and water. The things in a mixture stay the same. You can sometimes see the different parts, like in a salad. If you put sugar in water and it disappears, that is called a solution. If it does not disappear, it is called a suspension. Many rocks and soils are mixtures of different minerals.
Kabaddi\n\nKabaddi is a team sport from India. Two teams play on a small field. One player, called a raider, runs into the other team's side. The raider tries to touch players on the other team and run back. While running, the raider holds their breath and says "Kabaddi" over and over. If the raider touches someone, that person is out and the raider's team gets a point. If the raider gets caught, they are out. The team with the most points wins. There are seven players on each team, and the game has two halves of 20 minutes each.
Lady beetle\n\nA lady beetle is a small round bug with a hard shell. Many lady beetles are red with black spots, but some are orange, yellow, or even black with red spots. They live all over the world. Lady beetles eat tiny bugs called aphids that hurt plants. That helps farmers and gardens. A lady beetle starts as an egg, then becomes a baby bug that eats a lot, then turns into an adult. Some lady beetles live for one or two years. When scared, they can make a bad-smelling liquid to keep animals from eating them.
Universe\n\nThe universe is everything there is: all the space, stars, planets, and clouds of gas. It is very, very big. The universe started with a big bang a long time ago and has been getting bigger ever since. Stars and planets are far apart from each other. Our Earth is inside a big group of stars called the Milky Way. There are many other groups of stars, called galaxies, far away. Scientists use special tools called telescopes to look at stars and learn about the universe. Some parts of the universe are so far away that we can never see them.
Newspaper\n\nA newspaper is a stack of paper that comes out every day or every week. It tells you about things that are happening in your town, your country, and the world. You can get a newspaper at a store or have it brought to your house. Newspapers have stories about sports, weather, and fun things like comics and puzzles. Some parts of the newspaper tell you what the people who write it think. Other parts have letters from people who read it. Long ago, newspapers were written by hand for just a few people. Later, they were printed so many people could buy them.
European badger\n\nThe European badger is a wild animal that lives in Europe. It digs holes in the ground to make its home, called a burrow. The badger is very clean and goes to the bathroom in special spots away from its home. It eats many different plants and small animals. When a badger family member dies, they bury it. Badgers are usually calm and peaceful, but they can be fierce if they get scared. Sometimes other animals like rabbits and foxes live in the same burrow with the badger.
Kohlrabi\n\nKohlrabi is a vegetable that looks like a round ball with green leaves on top. It is a kind of cabbage. You can eat it raw or cooked. The round part and the leaves are both good to eat. People in Germany, Hungary, and other places like to eat kohlrabi.
Government\n\nA government is a group of people who make rules and take care of a place like a country, a state, or a city. There are different kinds of government. In a democracy, people vote to choose who will lead them. In a monarchy, a king or queen is the leader, and their family passes the job down. In a dictatorship, one person has all the power and makes all the rules. In an oligarchy, a small group of people rule together. Governments collect money called taxes to pay for things like roads, schools, and hospitals. Almost every place on Earth has a government.
Rock music\n\nRock music is a kind of music that people play with electric guitars, a bass guitar, a singer, and drums. It started a long time ago in the United States. Rock music has a strong beat that makes you want to tap your feet. Many people like to listen to rock music and dance to it. Some rock songs are about love, and some are about being happy or sad. Rock music can be loud and fast, or slow and soft. There are many different kinds of rock music, like punk rock, heavy metal, and alternative rock. People all over the world enjoy rock music.
Phase change\n\nA phase change is when something changes from one kind of stuff to another. For example, an ice cube is a solid. When it gets warm, it melts into liquid water. That is called melting. When water gets very hot, it turns into steam, which is a gas. That is called evaporation. When steam cools down, it turns back into water drops. That is called condensation. When water gets very cold, it freezes back into ice. That is called freezing. Heat makes things change from solid to liquid to gas. Cold makes them change back.
Catalonia\n\nCatalonia is a place in Spain. It is near the mountains called the Pyrenees and has a border with France. The biggest city in Catalonia is Barcelona, which is by the sea. Many people visit Barcelona in the summer. People in Catalonia speak Catalan, Spanish, and a little Occitan. Catalonia has its own government and police. In 2017, Catalonia said it wanted to be its own country, but most other countries did not agree. Catalonia has a lot of factories and farms. It gets more rain than southern Spain, so it is greener and not as hot.
Arapaima\n\nThe arapaima is a very big fish that lives in rivers in South America. It eats other fish, bugs, fruits, and even small animals near the water. When it feels scared, it can jump out of the water. Arapaima do not swim far away, so scientists think there are more kinds of arapaima they have not found yet.
Carnival\n\nCarnival is a big party with parades, music, and costumes. It happens in many cities around the world. Long ago, people had a big feast before a quiet time called Lent. During Lent, many people give up treats like cake or chocolate. Carnival is the fun party before that. Today, people dress up in bright clothes and masks. They dance in the streets to loud bands. Some parades have big floats with lots of decorations. In Venice, people wear fancy masks. In Uruguay, people sing and play drums in groups called murga. Carnival can last for many days. It is a time for everyone to have fun together.
Plant stem\n\nA plant stem is the part of a plant that holds up the leaves and flowers. Stems are like the body of the plant. They carry water and food from the roots to the leaves. Most stems grow above the ground, but some grow under the ground. Stems can be soft like a flower stem or hard like a tree trunk. Some stems we eat, like potatoes, asparagus, and sugar cane. Wood from tree trunks is used to make houses, furniture, paper, and many other things. Some stems give us medicine, spices, and rubber.
American football\n\nAmerican football is a game played by two teams with 11 players on each side. The ball has pointy ends. Players try to get the ball into the other team's end zone to score points. They wear helmets and padding to stay safe. The game is played on a long grass field. A team has four chances to move the ball forward. They can throw it or run with it. If they get the ball to the end zone, that is a touchdown and gives 6 points. They can also kick the ball through tall yellow poles for 3 points. After a touchdown, they can try for 1 or 2 extra points. The game lasts 60 minutes with four parts called quarters. The team with more points at the end wins.
Aesthetics\n\nAesthetics is about art and beauty. It asks what people like to see, hear, feel, smell, or taste. Some people think beauty is different for each person, like when someone says 'Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.' Others think there are rules for what is beautiful. Aesthetics helps us think about why we like some things and not others.
Soap\n\nSoap is something you use to get clean. It helps wash away dirt and germs from your hands and body. Soap makes bubbles called suds. The bubbles grab the dirt and germs, and then water washes them away. Soap can be made from fat or oil. People have used soap for a very long time, even thousands of years ago. Some people like to make their own soap at home.
Sanitary sewer\n\nA sanitary sewer is a pipe that goes underground. It takes dirty water from houses and buildings to a place that cleans the water. The dirty water is called sewage. Cleaning the water helps keep rivers and lakes safe. Long ago, dirty water made people very sick. Now we clean the water before it goes back outside.
Moldova\n\nMoldova is a country in Eastern Europe. It is next to Ukraine and Romania. The people there speak Romanian. The big city where the government works is called Chișinău. A long time ago, Moldova was part of a bigger country called the Soviet Union. Now it is its own country. Many people in Moldova work hard but do not get a lot of money. Russia used to send gas to Moldova, but in 2024 it stopped.
Milkfish\n\nA milkfish is a kind of fish that lives in the ocean. It is the national fish of the Philippines, where people call it bangus. Milkfish have shiny scales and a long body. People like to eat milkfish because it tastes good. Some people also call it other names like bandeng or gorillafish, but in the Philippines it is always called bangus.
Northeast India\n\nNortheast India is a part of the country of India. It is on the east side of Bangladesh. This place has seven states that are called the "seven sister states." Their names are Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, and Tripura. Sometimes Sikkim is also counted. These states are next to each other like sisters.
Woodpecker\n\nA woodpecker is a bird that pecks on trees with its strong beak. It has a long sticky tongue to catch bugs hiding inside the tree. Woodpeckers live in forests and woodlands all over the world, except in Australia, New Zealand, Madagascar, and Antarctica. They have special feet with four toes that help them hold onto tree trunks. Their stiff tail feathers help them stay upright while pecking. Woodpeckers have a strong skull that protects their brain from getting hurt when they hammer on wood. They also have a special flap that covers their eyes to keep out wood chips. Some woodpeckers are called wrynecks. They have shorter beaks and like to eat ants. Wrynecks can turn their heads almost all the way around and make a hissing sound to scare away animals.
Magnet\n\nA magnet is a special piece of metal that can pull some other metals toward it. Magnets have two sides called poles: a north pole and a south pole. If you put two different poles together, they pull each other close. If you put two same poles together, they push each other away. Magnets only stick to metals like iron, steel, and nickel. They do not stick to wood, glass, or plastic. Some magnets are natural rocks called lodestone. A compass uses a magnet to point north. You can play with magnets on your fridge or with toy trains.
Oceania\n\nOceania is a big area in the Pacific Ocean. It has many islands and 14 countries. Some people say Oceania is one of the continents of the world. The islands in Oceania are far apart, and the water around them is very blue. People live on some of these islands, and they have their own ways of life. The biggest country in Oceania is Australia.
Metamorphic rock\n\nA metamorphic rock is a rock that has been changed by very high heat and strong squeezing deep underground. The word 'metamorphic' means 'changed shape.' The old rock can be a sedimentary rock, an igneous rock, or another metamorphic rock. When the Earth pushes rocks together or heats them up, they twist and change. Sometimes the rock looks like a giant twisted it and heated it over a fire. Metamorphic rocks do not have fossils because the heat melts them away. You can find metamorphic rocks in mountains and deep inside the Earth.
Corporation\n\nA corporation is a big group of people who work together to run a business. The law sees it as its own thing, separate from the people who own it. This means the business can own things, sign papers, and go to court just like a person. People who own part of the company are called shareholders. They get a share of the money the company makes. The people who run the company every day are chosen by the shareholders. A corporation has a name, and it must pay taxes to the government. Some corporations are for making money, and some are for helping people, like churches or schools.
Popular culture\n\nPopular culture is the stuff that many people like. You can see it on TV, hear it on the radio, or play it in video games. It includes popular songs, movies, and books. Sometimes grown-ups do not like popular culture because they think it might be bad for people. But in some places, people are free to make and enjoy popular culture.
Insurance\n\nInsurance is something people buy to keep from losing money. You pay a little money every month. If something bad happens, the insurance company gives you money to help. There are different kinds of insurance. Life insurance pays money when someone dies. Other insurance pays for things like car crashes or doctor visits. People called actuaries figure out how much you should pay.
Ovary\n\nAn ovary is a part of a girl's body. Girls have two ovaries inside their belly. Ovaries are shaped like little ovals. They make tiny egg cells. Each month, one ovary lets an egg go. The egg can grow into a baby if it meets a seed from a daddy. Ovaries also make special helpers called hormones. These help a girl grow into a woman.
Zeus\n\nZeus is a make-believe king of the gods in old Greek stories. He lived on a tall mountain called Mount Olympus. Zeus was the god of the sky, lightning, and thunder. He had a special weapon called a thunderbolt that could make big flashes and loud booms. When he was a baby, his mom hid him in a cave so his dad would not eat him. When he grew up, he fought a big war and became the boss of all the gods. Zeus had many children, and some of them were gods too. People in old Greece had games every four years to honor him. His favorite animals were the eagle and the bull.
Papaya\n\nPapaya is a fruit that grows on a tall plant that looks like a tree. The plant has a soft green stem and big leaves at the top. The fruit is oval or round and can be as big as a football. The skin is green at first and turns yellow when the fruit is ready to eat. Inside, the fruit is yellow, orange, or pink, with many small black seeds. You can eat ripe papaya fresh after taking off the skin and seeds. People also make juice or mix it with other fruits. Green papaya is used in salads and soups in some countries. Papaya has vitamins that are good for your body.
Entertainment\n\nEntertainment is something fun that you do or watch. It can be a game, a movie, or a show. Some entertainment makes you laugh, like funny shows. Some entertainment can make you feel scared or sad, like scary movies. Entertainment helps you feel happy and forget about things that worry you.
Panama Canal\n\nThe Panama Canal is a water path in the country of Panama. It connects two big oceans: the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. The canal is 77 kilometers long. It has special gates called locks that lift boats up and down. Boats use the canal to go from one ocean to the other without going all the way around South America. That saves a very long trip. Many ships go through the canal every year. The canal was finished in 1914. The United States built it, and now Panama takes care of it.
Ship\n\nA ship is a very big vehicle that moves on water. It is bigger than a boat. Ships carry things like toys, food, and clothes from one country to another. Some ships carry people on trips or holidays. Long ago, ships used big cloth sails to catch the wind and move. Later, ships used steam engines. Today, many ships use diesel engines. The biggest ship in the world is called the "Prelude". It is as long as four big football fields. It collects gas from under the sea and turns it into liquid.
Cavalry\n\nCavalry are soldiers who ride horses into battle. Long ago, people fought on horses or in carts pulled by horses. Horses are strong, so cavalry can wear heavy clothes and carry big tools. Horses are fast, so cavalry can get to the fight quickly. Today, some cavalry ride in big cars called tanks instead of horses.
Grassland\n\nA grassland is a big open place where grass grows more than trees. Many grasslands have rivers and a few trees. Grasslands are in Africa, Asia, North America, South America, and near the coast of Australia. The biggest grasslands are in East Africa. Some grasslands are called savannas, prairies, or steppes. Grass can be short or tall. In tall grass, small animals can hide. Many animals live in grasslands, like zebras, giraffes, elephants, buffalo, deer, rabbits, snakes, and birds. These animals eat grass or eat other animals. Grasslands do not get much rain, so trees are few. Fires can happen in grasslands, but grass grows back.
Name\n\nA name is a word that tells who or what something is. People have names, like "Aarav" or "Ananya." Animals have names too, like "cat" or "dog." Your name is special to you. Some people have a first name and a last name. Your last name is often the same as your family's name. Sometimes people change their name when they get married. Names can be short or long. Some names come from old stories or from what parents hope their child will be like.
Telephone\n\nA telephone is a tool that lets people talk to each other when they are far away. Long ago, telephones had wires that connected one phone to another. Today, many telephones are mobile phones that you can carry around. Mobile phones use radio waves instead of wires. A man named Alexander Graham Bell made the first telephone a long time ago. Most telephones have their own number, and you can call someone by pressing their number. Some telephones are payphones where you put in coins to make a call. People use telephones every day to talk to friends and family.
Timbuktu\n\nTimbuktu is a city in a country called Mali, in Africa. It is a very old and famous city. Long ago, people came to Timbuktu to learn and to pray. There are three big mosques there, which are special buildings for prayer. The city is near a big river called the Niger River. People from different groups live there, like the Songhay and Tuareg. Timbuktu is a place where people trade things like salt. The salt comes from far away and is sold in Timbuktu. Many years ago, people in Europe thought Timbuktu was a very far and exciting place. It is very hot there, and the desert is slowly getting closer to the city.
Republic of Ireland\n\nIreland is a country in Europe. It is on an island called Ireland. The country shares the island with Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom. The capital city is Dublin. Cork is the second biggest city. About 4.9 million people live there. Most people speak English, but many also learn Irish in school. In some parts, called the Gaeltacht, people speak Irish as their first language. A long time ago, England ruled Ireland. Ireland became its own country in 1922. The leader of the country is called the President, but the President does not have a lot of power. The people vote for their leaders. The head of the government is called the Taoiseach. Ireland uses the euro as money. There are not many forests in Ireland, only about 10 percent. Many fields are used for farming.
Kuala Lumpur\n\nKuala Lumpur is a big city and the capital of a country called Malaysia. It is very hot there all year long. It rains a lot, almost every day. The city has one of the tallest buildings in the world, called the Petronas Twin Towers. They are two very tall towers that stand next to each other.
Condiment\n\nA condiment is a food you put on other food to make it taste better. It can be a sauce or a powder. Salt and pepper are condiments. Ketchup, mustard, and mayonnaise are also condiments. You might put ketchup on your fries or mustard on a hot dog.
Pyramid\n\nA pyramid is a big building made of stone that looks like a triangle from the side. Long ago, kings and queens called pharaohs in Egypt were buried inside pyramids. The biggest pyramid is the Great Pyramid of Giza. It was the tallest building in the world for a very long time. Workers built it with big stone blocks. Some pyramids are in other places like Mexico and Central America. There is even a glass pyramid in Paris, France.
Oceanic trench\n\nAn oceanic trench is a very deep, narrow valley on the ocean floor. It has steep sides like a big crack in the ground under the water. These trenches happen when one big piece of the Earth's crust slides under another piece. The Mariana Trench is the deepest trench in the world. It is near the island of Guam. In 1960, two men went all the way down to the bottom of the Mariana Trench in a special boat. Trenches can cause earthquakes and big waves called tsunamis.
Thai boxing\n\nThai boxing is a kind of fighting sport from Thailand. It is also called Muay Thai. In this sport, you can use your hands, elbows, knees, and feet to hit. That is why people call it the art of eight limbs. Before a fight, the fighters do a special dance and ceremony. Long ago, Thai boxing was used in wars. Now it is a sport. Fighters wear gloves to stay safe. They train very hard to be strong and fast. Thai boxing is known all over the world.
Cassiopeia (constellation)\n\nCassiopeia is a group of stars in the night sky. It looks like a letter W or M made of five bright stars. You can see it in the fall. A long time ago, a very bright star suddenly appeared there and then faded away.
Pangaea\n\nPangaea was a giant land that was made of all the land on Earth a very long time ago. It was like one big piece of land with all the countries stuck together. A huge ocean called Panthalassa was all around it. Then, after many, many years, Pangaea started to break apart into smaller pieces. Those pieces moved away from each other and became the continents we have today, like North America, Africa, and Australia. The breaking is still happening in some places, like in East Africa.
Cycle sport\n\nCycle sport is when people ride bicycles in races. There are different kinds of bike races. Some races are on roads, some on bumpy dirt paths, and some on special tracks with jumps. People also do tricks on bikes or play games like bike polo. Bike racing is in the Olympics. Many people in Europe, like in France and Italy, love to watch bike races. The first bike race was in 1868 in Paris, France. A man from England won that race on a wooden bike with hard rubber wheels.
Rio de Janeiro\n\nRio de Janeiro is a big city in Brazil. It is the second biggest city in that country. The city sits next to the ocean and has many beaches, like Copacabana and Ipanema. There is a big statue of Jesus called Christ the Redeemer on a tall mountain. Another mountain looks like a sugar loaf. Many people live and work in Rio. The city makes things like clothes and food. In 2016, the Olympic Games were held there. A big forest called Tijuca National Park is inside the city. You can ride an old tram to a neighborhood called Santa Tereza.
Slovenia\n\nSlovenia is a small country in the middle of Europe. The biggest city is Ljubljana, and people there speak Slovenian. About 2 million people live in Slovenia. It makes things like toys and metal to sell to other countries. A long time ago, different groups of people lived there, and then it was part of a bigger country called Yugoslavia. In 1991, Slovenia became its own country after a short war. Now it is part of a big group of countries called the European Union.
X-ray\n\nAn X-ray is a kind of invisible wave that can go through things. It has more energy than light we can see. X-rays can pass through skin and muscle, but not through bone. That is why doctors use X-rays to take pictures of the bones inside your body. The picture shows the bones as white shapes. X-rays are made by hitting metal with very fast tiny bits. They can be dangerous if you get too many, so doctors are careful. Sometimes X-rays are used to help sick people get better.
Currency\n\nCurrency is the money people use to buy things. Different countries have different kinds of money. For example, the United States uses dollars, and Japan uses yen. Some money is tied to another country's money, so if that money changes, it changes too. Long ago, some money was tied to gold or silver, but most countries do not do that anymore.
Peafowl\n\nA peafowl is a bird that is a relative of the pheasant. The male is called a peacock and has long, colorful tail feathers that can be blue and green. The female is called a peahen and has shorter, brown feathers. Peafowl live in Asia, like India and Pakistan. They eat plants, bugs, and small animals. The peacock shows off his big tail to make the peahen like him. The peahen lays eggs and sits on them for about thirty days. Baby peafowl are called peachicks and learn what to eat from their mother.
Porpoise\n\nA porpoise is a mammal that lives in the ocean. It looks like a dolphin but is smaller and rounder. A porpoise has a blunt nose, a triangle fin on its back, and spade-shaped teeth. There are six kinds of porpoise. Some porpoises live near China. People at special places teach porpoises and learn about them.
Deafness\n\nDeafness is when a person cannot hear sounds or cannot hear well. Some people cannot hear any sounds at all. Other people can hear some sounds but not all. People who cannot hear well may use their eyes to watch hands move and talk that way. Some famous people like Beethoven were deaf. There are many reasons why someone might be deaf.
Sediment\n\nSediment is tiny bits of dirt, sand, or rock that fall to the bottom of water or land. Wind or water can move these bits from one place to another. Over a very long time, many layers of sediment get pressed together and turn into hard rock. You can see sediment at the bottom of a glass of water or in a muddy puddle.
Golf\n\nGolf is a game where you hit a small ball with a long stick called a club. You try to get the ball into a hole in the ground. The game is played outside on a big field with grass. Each hole has a number that tells you how many hits you should need. If you use fewer hits, that is good. If you use more, that is not as good. There are different clubs for hitting the ball far or close. People play golf for fun or in contests.
Montenegro\n\nMontenegro is a small country in Europe. Its name means Black Mountain. It sits next to the sea called the Adriatic Sea. The country has mountains and forests. The capital city is Podgorica. The old capital is Cetinje. Many people in Montenegro speak a language called Montenegrin. Most people follow the Christian religion, and some follow Islam. Montenegro used to be part of a bigger country called Yugoslavia. In 2006, the people voted to become their own country. The money they use is called the euro.
Snake\n\nA snake is a reptile with a long, thin body and no legs. Snakes live in many warm places around the world. Most snakes live on the ground or in trees. Some live in water or under the soil. Snakes eat other animals. Some snakes have poison to catch their food. Other snakes squeeze their food to death. Snakes can open their mouths very wide to swallow food whole. They do not chew. Snakes move without legs by wiggling their bodies. They can move on the ground, in water, and in sand. Snakes shed their skin when they grow. They rub against a rock or wood to split the old skin and crawl out. Most snakes are not dangerous to people.
Rajasthan\n\nRajasthan is a big state in the northwest part of India. It is the largest state in India by land. A big desert called the Thar Desert covers most of Rajasthan. The capital city is Jaipur. Many people live there, and they have a rich history and colorful culture.
Ganymede (moon)\n\nGanymede is a big moon that goes around the planet Jupiter. It is the biggest moon in our whole solar system. Ganymede is even bigger than the planet Mercury, but it is lighter because it is made of rock and ice. Under its icy outside, there is a big ocean of water that might have more water than all the oceans on Earth. Ganymede has dark and light spots on its surface. The dark spots are very old, and the light spots have lines and grooves. Ganymede is the only moon that has its own magnet.
Caiman\n\nA caiman is a kind of animal that lives in the water. It is like an alligator. Caimans live in South America and some live in Central America. They move slowly and grow old. There are six kinds of caimans.
Fable\n\nA fable is a short story that teaches a lesson. The characters in a fable are often animals that talk and act like people. For example, a clay pot might say it is scared of breaking. Fables are simple, so you do not need to know a lot about the characters. The most famous fables are by a man named Aesop. One well-known fable is "The Boy Who Cried Wolf." In that story, a boy shouts "Wolf!" for fun, and when a real wolf comes, no one believes him.
Jerusalem\n\nJerusalem is a very old city that people have lived in for a long time. It is a hilly city with many valleys around it. Jerusalem is important for three big religions: Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. For Jewish people, it is where the Temple once stood, and the Western Wall is a special place for prayer. For Christians, many things in the life of Jesus happened there, like the Last Supper and where he died. For Muslims, it is where Muhammad went up to heaven, and the Dome of the Rock and Al-Aqsa Mosque are there. The city has old stone walls around the Old City, and new buildings outside. Many buildings are made of a special cream-colored stone called Jerusalem stone. Today, both Israel and Palestine say Jerusalem is their capital, but many countries do not agree.
Pagoda\n\nA pagoda is a tall tower with many roofs stacked on top of each other. You can find pagodas in Asia, especially in countries like China and Japan. People build pagodas as special places for their religion. Some pagodas are very old and hold special things inside. The roofs curve up at the edges and look like wings.
Palau\n\nPalau is a small country made of many islands in the big Pacific Ocean. It is near the Philippines. Palau is very warm all year, with temperatures around 82 degrees. The capital city used to be Koror, but now it is Melekeok. Palau has sixteen parts called states. The people there sometimes call their country Belau.
Coral Sea\n\nThe Coral Sea is a small sea near the northeast coast of Australia. It has warm weather and lots of rain. The Great Barrier Reef is in this sea. Many sea animals live there, like sharks, manta rays, tuna, turtles, and whales. There are also many small islands in the Coral Sea. Only one island has people living on it, and only four people live there. A long time ago, during a big war, a battle happened in the Coral Sea. Airplanes from ships fought each other, and the battle helped keep Australia safe.
Breast\n\nA breast is a part of the body on the upper chest. People have two breasts, one on each side. Boys and girls are born with small breasts. When girls grow up, their breasts get bigger. A mother can feed her baby with milk from her breasts. That is called breastfeeding. The middle of the breast is the nipple. Around the nipple is a darker circle called the areola. Breasts can be different sizes. One breast may be bigger than the other, and that is okay. Breasts are soft and can feel touch.
Damascus\n\nDamascus is a big city in a country called Syria. It is one of the oldest cities in the world where people still live. Many, many years ago, people started living there. Damascus is near the sea. Long ago, people came to Damascus to buy and sell things. Now, the city makes things that go to other countries. There are schools called universities in Damascus. The city has very old buildings, like a big mosque and a market with small shops. Some old parts of the city are underground now.
Magic (illusion)\n\nMagic is when a person called a magician does tricks that look like they cannot be real. The magician might pull a rabbit out of a hat or make a coin disappear. These tricks are not real magic, just clever ways to make people smile and wonder. People watch magic shows to have fun and be surprised.
Small intestine\n\nThe small intestine is a long, thin tube inside your belly. It sits between your stomach and your large intestine. Most of the food you eat gets broken down and turned into energy here. The small intestine is very long, but it is narrow, like a skinny straw. It has three parts with special names, but you can just call it the small intestine.
Kingston, Jamaica\n\nKingston is a big city in a country called Jamaica. It is the most important city there, where the leaders work. Kingston sits by the ocean on the southeast side of the island. It has a big harbor where boats can come in safely. Many people live in Kingston, more than six hundred thousand. The city has an airport where planes land and take off. People in Kingston speak English.
Tide\n\nA tide is when the ocean water goes up and down. The Moon pulls on the water, making it rise and fall. When the water comes up high on the beach, that is high tide. When it goes back down, that is low tide. Most places have two high tides and two low tides every day. Sometimes the tides are extra high, and sometimes they are not as high. The Sun also helps pull the water a little bit. The part of the beach that is wet at high tide and dry at low tide is a special place where small animals live.
Chinese language\n\nThe Chinese language is a group of languages that people in China and other places use to talk and write. There are many kinds of Chinese, like Mandarin, Wu, and Yue. They sound different, but they use the same writing system with special pictures called characters. Some characters are simple, and some are more complicated. In China, most people use the simple ones. To read a newspaper, you need to know about 3,000 characters. Chinese words have tones, which means your voice goes up or down to change the meaning. Many people learn Mandarin because it is the main language used in China.
Garlic\n\nGarlic is a plant that people eat to make food taste better. It has a very strong smell and flavor. Garlic is like onions and leeks. The part people eat is called the head, and it grows at the bottom of a long green stalk. You can pull the head apart into smaller pieces called cloves. Cloves have papery skin that you peel off before cooking. People plant garlic in the fall, and one clove can grow into a whole new head. Garlic is also used as medicine to help with colds. Some stories say garlic keeps vampires away.
United States dollar\n\nThe United States dollar is the money people use in America. It is also used in some other places around the world. The dollar sign looks like this: $. People also call it USD. One dollar is made of 100 cents. There are coins like the penny (1 cent), nickel (5 cents), dime (10 cents), quarter (25 cents), and half-dollar (50 cents). Paper dollars are more common than dollar coins. All paper bills and coins have pictures of famous Americans on them. People get dollars from banks or machines called ATMs. Dollars are used to buy things like food, toys, and clothes.
Kabuki\n\nKabuki is a kind of Japanese play that started about 400 years ago. The actors wear special makeup and colorful clothes. They sing, dance, and act in a way that is not like real life. A woman named Izumo no Okuni started kabuki in 1603. Later, only men could be actors, and men still play both boy and girl parts today. The makeup helps the audience know if a character is brave or kind. Kabuki theaters have a round stage that can turn around, and a walkway called a "hanamichi" that goes through the audience. People from all over the world now watch kabuki.
Common sense\n\nCommon sense is something that most people know and understand. It helps you make good choices and stay safe. For example, it is common sense to look both ways before you cross the street. Common sense comes from what you learn and see every day. Sometimes common sense can be wrong. A long time ago, people thought the sun went around the Earth. That seemed like common sense then, but now we know it is not true.
Crochet\n\nCrochet is a way to make things with yarn and a special hook. You pull loops of yarn through other loops to make fabric. It is like knitting, but you use one hook instead of two pointy sticks. People use crochet to make blankets, hats, toys, and even lace. Kids can learn crochet because the stitches are easy and small hands can hold the hook. You can see your work grow fast, which is fun. If you stop and start again later, it is easy to keep going. Just remember that the names of stitches are different in the US and the UK, so check your pattern.
Lobster\n\nA lobster is a sea animal with a hard shell. It lives in the ocean, on rocks or sand. Lobsters have claws on their front legs. One claw is big and strong for grabbing food. The other claw is smaller and sharp for cutting. Lobsters walk slowly on the sea floor. When they are scared, they swim backwards very fast by bending their tail. They eat fish, worms, and plants. Sometimes they eat old shells they have shed. Lobsters grow bigger by climbing out of their old shell. This is called moulting. After moulting, they are soft and must hide until a new hard shell grows. Some lobsters live for more than 100 years. People catch lobsters to eat because the meat tastes good.
Scroll\n\nA scroll is a long roll of paper with writing on it. Long ago, people wrote stories and important messages on scrolls. You unroll a scroll to read it, then roll it back up to keep it safe. Some scrolls are very old and live in museums.
Sardine\n\nA sardine is a small fish that lives in the ocean. It is an oily fish and is related to the herring. Sardines are named after an island called Sardinia, where people used to catch many of them. You can buy sardines in cans at the store. The cans have water or oil inside to keep the fish soft.
Ghost\n\nA ghost is a make-believe spirit of a person who has died. In stories, ghosts try to scare people. Some ghosts are said to be friendly and help people. Many people believe they have seen or felt a ghost. Scientists say there is no proof that ghosts are real. People dress up as ghosts at Halloween.
Temperature\n\nTemperature tells us how hot or cold something is. You can feel if something is hot or cold with your skin. To know exactly how hot or cold, people use a tool called a thermometer. Most of the world uses degrees Celsius, but in the United States people use degrees Fahrenheit. Scientists sometimes use kelvins. Temperature is not the same as heat. Heat is energy that moves from a hot thing to a cold thing. Temperature is about how fast the tiny bits inside a thing are moving. When the bits move fast, the thing is hot. When they move slow, the thing is cold. Different things need different amounts of heat to get warmer. For example, water needs more heat to get hotter than steel does. Temperature also matters for weather. It changes during the day, in different seasons, and in different places.
Vein\n\nA vein is a tube inside your body that carries blood back to your heart. Most veins carry blood that has used up its air, so it looks dark red. You can see some veins under your skin, and they look blue because of how light goes through your skin. Veins have little doors inside them that stop blood from going the wrong way. The biggest vein in your body is called the vena cava.
Polo\n\nPolo is a sport played on horses. Two teams of 4 players try to hit a ball into the other team's goal. They use long sticks called mallets to hit the ball. The horses are called polo ponies, but they are really full-sized horses. The game is split into short parts called chukkas. Players change horses between chukkas. There are rules to keep the horses and riders safe. If a player breaks a rule, the other team gets a chance to score. Polo was first played a long time ago in a place called Baltistan. Later, people in England and the United States started playing it too.
Porto\n\nPorto is a big city in Portugal. It is the second biggest city in that country. Porto sits next to a big river called the Douro, and part of the city touches the Atlantic Ocean. The city is very old, and its center is a special place that people protect because it has old buildings and streets. Porto is famous for a special drink called port wine, which is made from grapes and stored in big buildings across the river. Many people visit Porto because it is pretty and fun.
Wool\n\nWool is the soft hair that comes from animals like sheep and goats. People take the wool and make it into yarn. Then they use the yarn to make warm clothes like sweaters, socks, and blankets. Wool keeps you warm because it traps heat. It can also soak up water. Wool is stretchy and can be cleaned easily. Some wool comes from rabbits, and that is called angora wool. Australia grows the most wool in the world.
Washington, D.C.\n\nWashington, D.C. is the capital of the United States. It is a special place that is not part of any state. The President lives and works there in a big white house called the White House. Many important government buildings are in Washington, D.C., like the Capitol where Congress meets and the Supreme Court. The city was named after George Washington, the first President. "D.C." stands for "District of Columbia." Washington, D.C. has many museums and monuments that people visit. There is a big park called the National Mall with lots of statues and museums. The city was planned before it was built, with wide streets and roundabouts. People who live in Washington, D.C. pay taxes but do not have a voting person in Congress, so their car license plates say "Taxation Without Representation." The weather is hot and humid in summer, cool in winter, and mild in spring and fall. Snow falls a few times each winter.
Zucchini\n\nZucchini is a green vegetable that looks like a cucumber. You can eat it cooked, and people sometimes put it in sweet bread. It is a type of squash. Some people call it courgette or baby marrow. You can also make long, thin strips of zucchini that look like noodles, called zoodles.
Helicopter\n\nA helicopter is a flying machine that can go up, down, and stay still in the air. It has spinning blades on top called rotors that lift it up. Unlike an airplane, a helicopter does not need a long road to take off or land. It can land in small places like a field or a rooftop. Helicopters help people in emergencies by bringing food, water, and medicine to places where cars cannot go. They can also carry hurt people to the hospital very fast. Some helicopters are used by the army to move soldiers and supplies. A long time ago, children played with a toy called a flying top that worked like a helicopter.
Austria\n\nAustria is a country in the middle of Europe. It is next to Germany, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Italy, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein. People in Austria speak German. The capital city is Vienna. Austria has many big mountains called the Alps. The tallest mountain is Grossglockner. There is also a big river called the Danube. Austria is a democratic republic, which means people vote for their leaders. It does not fight in wars with other countries. Famous foods from Austria are Wiener Schnitzel and Apfelstrudel. Many famous music makers, like Mozart, were from Austria.
Rapping\n\nRapping is a way of talking that goes with music. It is like singing, but more like talking in a rhythm. A person who raps is called a rapper. Rapping started in New York City in the 1970s. People would talk over music at parties. Today, many popular songs have rapping in them. Rappers tell stories or share feelings with their words.
Formation and evolution of the Solar System\n\nThe Solar System is the Sun and everything that goes around it. It started a very, very long time ago, about 4.6 billion years. First, there was a big cloud of gas in space. The gas pulled together because of gravity, and the middle got very hot. That hot middle became the Sun. The rest of the gas and dust spun around and made the planets. The planets are made of rock and dust, but the Sun is made of gas. The Sun is huge and gives us light and heat. The planets go around the Sun because gravity pulls them. The Solar System is still changing, but very slowly.
Self-esteem\n\nSelf-esteem is how you feel about yourself. If you think you are good at things and like yourself, that is high self-esteem. If you think you are bad at things and do not like yourself, that is low self-esteem. Having good self-esteem helps you feel happy and brave. It is important to be kind to yourself and others.
Landscape painting\n\nLandscape painting is a kind of art that shows the outdoors. The picture can have trees, hills, rivers, or fields. It can be a real place or a make-believe one. Some landscape paintings show farms or towns that people built. Other paintings show wild nature like mountains and forests. Artists use paint to make the sky, ground, and water look pretty.
Infantry\n\nInfantry is a part of a country's army. People in the infantry fight on their own feet. They do not ride in cars or on horses. They are called foot soldiers. Long ago, they used spears and swords. Today, they use guns and other weapons. Being in the infantry is very dangerous. Many soldiers in the infantry get hurt or die in war. But the infantry is very important to the army.
Peru\n\nPeru is a country in South America. The capital is called Lima. Peru has tall mountains called the Andes, a big jungle called the Amazon, and old stone buildings from the Inca people. The Incas lived long ago and built cities like Machu Picchu high in the mountains. They grew potatoes and used llamas to carry things. Later, people from Spain came and took over. Now Peru is its own country. Many people visit Peru to see the mountains, the jungle, and the old Inca buildings. People in Peru speak Spanish and also a language called Quechua. They eat food like ceviche and broiled chicken. Peru sells fish, gold, oil, coffee, sugar, and cotton to other countries.
Design\n\nDesign is how something looks and how it works. People who make designs want things to be pretty and easy to use. They use shapes, colors, and lines to make pictures, chairs, clothes, or even websites. A good design helps you find your way in a big building like a hospital. Designers think hard about how to make things better for everyone.
Brisbane\n\nBrisbane is a big city in Australia. It is the capital of a part of Australia called Queensland. The city sits next to a river called the Brisbane River. Many people live there, more than two million. Brisbane has tall buildings called skyscrapers. In summer it is hot and rainy. In winter it is warm and dry. Sometimes big storms come and cause floods. Brisbane has many schools and places to learn. People there like to play and watch sports like cricket and rugby.
Acceleration\n\nAcceleration is how fast something speeds up. When a toy car starts moving, it goes from not moving to moving fast. That is acceleration. If the car slows down, that is called deceleration. Acceleration also happens when you change direction, like when you turn a corner on your bike. Big things need more push to speed up than little things.
Hero\n\nA hero is a brave person who helps others. A hero can be real, like a firefighter who saves a baby from a fire. A hero can also be make-believe, like a superhero in a story. Heroes are strong and do good things. They help people who are in trouble. A girl hero is called a heroine. The opposite of a hero is a villain.
Olympic weightlifting\n\nOlympic weightlifting is a sport where strong people try to lift a heavy bar with big round plates on the ends. They have to lift it all the way over their head in one fast move. The person who can lift the heaviest bar wins. People watch this sport at the Olympic games.
Mall\n\nA mall is a very big building with many stores inside. Each store has its own room with walls. People walk in the middle part to go from store to store. Most malls have a place to park cars outside. They also have a roof so people can shop even when it rains. Many malls have a food court where you can buy lunch. Some malls have a movie theater where you can watch a film. In America people call it a mall, and in the United Kingdom people call it a shopping center.
Scarf\n\nA scarf is a long piece of cloth you wear around your neck or on your head. People wear scarves to stay warm when it is cold outside. Some scarves are made of soft yarn and are knitted. Others are made of thin cloth. Some women wear a scarf on their head for their religion. Scarves can be many colors like red, blue, or green.
Bahrain\n\nBahrain is a small island country in the Persian Gulf. It is near Saudi Arabia and Qatar. The land is flat and dry, with a low hill in the middle. People have lived there for a very long time. Long ago, Bahrain was known for sweet water springs and pearls. Today, it is a kingdom ruled by a king. The country has a parliament where people vote for some leaders. Women can also vote. Bahrain gets money from oil, but it also has other businesses. The biggest city is Manama.
Sahara\n\nThe Sahara is a very big desert in North Africa. It is the largest hot desert in the world. The Sahara is very hot and dry. It does not rain much there. In the summer, the air can be over 100 degrees. At night, it can get cold. Some parts have sand dunes, and other parts have rocks and mountains. A few rivers like the Nile flow through it. Not many people live in the Sahara because it is so dry. But some people live near water called oases. There are also animals like camels, snakes, and scorpions. The Sahara is as big as the whole United States.
Chamber music\n\nChamber music is music played by a small group of people. A chamber is a room in a big house. Long ago, rich people had musicians play in small rooms. That is why it is called chamber music. The group can have two to nine players. Each person plays a different part. There is no leader like in a big orchestra. Everyone listens to each other and plays together. It is like talking with music. Some famous music writers like Mozart and Haydn wrote chamber music. Playing chamber music is fun because you can hear your own playing.
Hunter-gatherer\n\nA hunter-gatherer is a person who gets food from wild plants and animals. They do not grow food in gardens or keep farm animals. Instead, they pick berries, nuts, and roots from the woods. They also hunt animals like deer or fish for meat. Hunter-gatherers move from place to place to find food. They do not stay in one house for a long time. Long ago, all people were hunter-gatherers. Today, only a few groups still live this way.
Skyscraper\n\nA skyscraper is a very tall building. Many skyscrapers are built in big cities like New York, Chicago, London, and Tokyo. Long ago, people did not build very tall buildings because they would fall down. Now we use strong materials like steel and concrete to make them stand up straight. The first skyscraper was built in Chicago in 1885 and was ten stories high. One of the most famous skyscrapers is the Empire State Building in New York City. Today, the tallest skyscraper in the world is the Burj Khalifa in Dubai.
Luanda\n\nLuanda is a big city in Africa. It is the capital of a country called Angola. Luanda sits next to the Atlantic Ocean, where big boats come and go. Many people live there, about as many as in a very large town. Long ago, people from Portugal built the city. Now it is the most important city in Angola.
Forging\n\nForging is a way to make things from metal. You hit the metal with a hammer to change its shape. Sometimes the metal is heated first to make it soft. People have been forging for a very long time. They make things like pots, pans, tools, and swords. Big machines can also forge very large pieces of metal.
Spiral galaxy\n\nA spiral galaxy is a big group of stars that looks like a flat spinning plate with a bump in the middle. The bump is the center, and arms of stars and dust go around it like a pinwheel. Some spiral galaxies have a bar of stars across the middle. Our own galaxy, the Milky Way, is a spiral galaxy. The arms are bright because they have young, hot stars. Spiral galaxies are common in the universe, but you do not find many near big groups of galaxies.
Pathogen\n\nA pathogen is a tiny living thing that can make you sick. Some pathogens are very small germs called viruses or bacteria. Your body has a helper system that fights off these germs to keep you healthy. Sometimes, if your helper system is weak, the germs can grow and make you very sick. A long time ago, a very bad germ called the flu made many, many people sick all over the world. Pathogens can also make plants sick, and fungi are the main germs that hurt plants.
Margarine\n\nMargarine is a food that looks like butter but is made from plant oil or animal fat. It has less fat than butter, so some people use it instead. But some margarines have a kind of fat that is not good for your heart. Butter or olive oil are better for cooking.
Greek language\n\nGreek is a language that people speak in Greece and Cyprus. It is a very old language that people have been writing for more than 3,000 years. The Greek alphabet is used to write it. Many other alphabets, like the one we use for English, came from the Greek alphabet. Over 13 million people speak Greek today. Most of them live in Greece and Cyprus, but some live in other countries like the United States and Australia.
Festival\n\nA festival is a special time when people come together to have fun and celebrate. Sometimes it is a holiday when everyone gets a day off from school or work. People at a festival might listen to music, watch dancing, hear poems, or see movies. Some festivals are about a religion, and some are about a whole country.
California\n\nCalifornia is a place in the United States, next to the Pacific Ocean. It is big and has more people than any other state. Some big cities are Los Angeles, San Diego, San Francisco, and the capital Sacramento. California has mountains, deserts, and a long coast. It has hot places like Death Valley and high mountains like Mount Whitney. Many fruits and vegetables grow there. Lots of movies are made in Hollywood. Many people from different countries live in California. There are earthquakes sometimes, so people keep extra food and water ready. The state flower is the golden poppy. People call it 'The Golden State'.
British Library\n\nThe British Library is a very big library in London, England. It is one of the biggest libraries in the whole world. It has more than 170 million things, like books, maps, and music. Every year, it gets about three million new things. The library has a tall glass tower inside that holds the King's Library, which has 65,000 books. Some of the books are very old, from a long time ago. People can go to the library to read and learn.
Boarding school\n\nA boarding school is a school where children live and sleep, not just go for lessons. Some children go home every day, but others stay there all the time. A child who stays at a boarding school is called a boarder. Most boarding schools cost money for both sleeping and learning. In Ghana, many older children go to boarding schools. Some boarding schools are for children who need extra help, and some let children help make the rules. There are also military schools that teach children to be strong and follow rules. Many stories, like Harry Potter, take place at boarding schools.
Digital art\n\nDigital art is art made with a computer or a tablet. Instead of using paper and crayons, you use a screen and a special pen. You can draw pictures, make funny cartoons, or change photos. Some people call it computer art. It is a fun way to make art with technology.
Havana\n\nHavana is a big city and the capital of Cuba. It is the largest city in the Caribbean. Many people live there. Havana is very old. It was first built a long time ago by people from Spain. The city has a big airport where planes come and go. There are old forts and walls that were built to keep the city safe. Ships used to stop in Havana on their way back to Spain.
History of video games\n\nThe history of video games is about how playing games on a screen began and grew. The first video games came out a long time ago, in the 1970s. People liked them so much that many companies started making games. Then, in 1983, the game business had a hard time and almost stopped. But two years later, it got better and grew bigger than before. Now, video games are very popular all over the world. Big companies like Xbox, PlayStation, and Nintendo make games for kids and grown-ups. Some old games, like Super Mario Bros, are still loved today. New games, like Super Mario Odyssey, are fun to play on new machines.
Stairs\n\nStairs are steps that help you go up or down. They can be straight or round. Some stairs have a railing to hold onto so you do not fall. Escalators are moving stairs. Ladders are like stairs you can carry.
Osaka\n\nOsaka is a big city in Japan. It is near the sea, so boats can come and go easily. Long ago, an emperor made Osaka the capital city. A man named Toyotomi Hideyoshi built a big castle there. Today, Osaka is a busy place where people work, shop, and have fun. People in Osaka eat special foods like okonomiyaki and takoyaki. They also speak a different way of talking called Osaka-Ben. Osaka is still a very important city in Japan.
Oat\n\nOat is a grain that people and animals eat. People make oatmeal from oats. Oatmeal is a warm breakfast food. You can also make oat bread and oat cookies. Oats grow in places that are not too hot and not too cold. They need a lot of rain. Horses and chickens like to eat oats too. Oat straw is soft and used for animal beds. Oats are good for you and help keep your heart healthy.
Critical thinking\n\nCritical thinking is a smart way to think. It means looking at something carefully and deciding if it is true or not. You ask questions and think about different ideas. You look for proof to help you decide. You also think about what might happen next. This helps you make good choices and solve problems. It keeps you from being fooled.
Garden\n\nA garden is a piece of land where people grow flowers, trees, and other plants. Taking care of a garden by watering the plants and pulling out weeds is called gardening. Some gardens are small and in people's backyards. Other gardens are big and in parks or zoos. A greenhouse is a special building with a glass roof that lets sunlight in to help plants grow. Water gardens have pools and ponds with water lilies. Gardens are smaller than farms. Farms grow lots of food to sell, but most backyard gardens are just for fun. Gardens can have paths, seats, ponds, fountains, and waterfalls. Many people think gardens are beautiful and relaxing. Some gardens have places to sit and read or have a barbecue. In Japan, people make special gardens with rocks, water, and tiny trees. Long ago, kings and queens had big fancy gardens built.
Buoyancy\n\nBuoyancy is a force that pushes things up in water or air. It helps boats float on water and balloons float in the sky. If something is lighter than water, it floats. If it is heavier, it sinks. A big ship made of metal can float because it has air inside, making it light enough to stay on top of the water.
Length\n\nLength is how long something is from one end to the other. Short means a small length. Long means a big length. A ruler is a tool to measure length. Shapes have sides, and each side has a length. Length can also mean how much time passes, like sitting for two hours.
Pearl\n\nA pearl is a small, hard, round thing that comes from an oyster. Oysters are animals that live in the sea. Pearls are often white, but can also be pale colors or black. They are used to make pretty jewelry like necklaces and earrings. A pearl is made when an oyster gets a tiny bit of sand or a little bug inside its shell. The oyster covers it with a shiny, smooth material to protect itself. Over time, this makes a pearl. Pearls can be very tiny, like a little seed, or as big as a fist. Some pearls come from oysters in the ocean, and some come from mussels in rivers and lakes. The month June has the pearl as its special stone.
Office\n\nAn office is a room or a building where people do work with papers and computers. People in an office write, read, and talk to each other. Some offices have desks, chairs, and shelves. There are also meeting rooms where people sit together and talk. Many offices have a kitchen where workers can make lunch. Long ago, offices were small rooms in palaces where people counted money for the king. Today, offices can be big buildings with many workers.
Metropolitan area\n\nA metropolitan area is a big city and the smaller towns and villages around it. The word "metropolitan" comes from old words that mean "mother city." Many people live in the big city, and even more people live in the towns and houses nearby. The biggest metropolitan area in the world is Tokyo. About 8 and a half million people live in Tokyo itself, and about 36 and a half million live in the whole metropolitan area. Sometimes the whole area is run by one government, like in Australia.
Power\n\nPower is a word that can mean different things. It can mean the energy that makes lights turn on and machines work. It can also mean when someone is very strong or in charge. For example, a king has power over his people. Electricity gives power to your toys and TV.
Bean\n\nA bean is a seed that comes from a plant. Beans grow inside pods, like little green cases. There are many kinds of beans, such as lentils, peas, and soybeans. Beans are good for you because they have lots of fiber and protein. Some beans, like coffee beans and cocoa beans, are not really beans but look like them. You can eat many beans, but some beans are poisonous and you should never eat them.
The Gambia\n\nThe Gambia is a small country in West Africa. It is very long and thin, like a ribbon. The Gambia is the smallest country on the mainland of Africa. It is surrounded by another country called Senegal, except for one side where the ocean is. The big river called the River Gambia flows through the middle of the country. The capital city is Banjul. Many people live in the cities of Serekunda and Brikama. The weather is hot, and from June to November it rains a lot. People who live there are called Gambians. Most of them follow the religion of Islam. They speak English and other languages too.
Enceladus\n\nEnceladus is a giant from old Greek stories. He was very big and strong. The stories say he fought against other gods and lost. Now he is said to be trapped under a mountain.
Trout\n\nA trout is a fish that lives in clear rivers, streams, and lakes. It can be found in America, Europe, and Asia. Trout have a small extra fin on their back. Young trout have dark spots on their sides. They are in the same family as salmon.
Parthenon\n\nThe Parthenon is a very old building in Athens, Greece. It was built a long, long time ago to honor a goddess named Athena. The building is made of big white stones called marble. It has tall columns all around it. For many years, people used it as a church and then as a mosque. A big explosion hurt the building in 1687. Some of its stone carvings were taken away and are now in a museum in London.
Guanaco\n\nA guanaco is an animal that lives in South America. It looks a bit like a camel or a llama, with a long neck and soft fur. Guanacos live in small groups called herds. When one guanaco sees danger, it makes a loud call to warn the others. Then they all run away very fast over rocks and hills. Guanacos eat grass, leaves, and buds. They can go a long time without drinking water because they get water from the plants they eat.
English Channel\n\nThe English Channel is a big stretch of water between Great Britain and Europe. People can cross it on a boat called a ferry, or ride a train through a tunnel under the water called the Chunnel. Cars can go on both the ferry and the train. The channel is very long and wide, but at one spot it is only as wide as a long swim. On a clear day, you can see the white cliffs on one side from the other side. Some people have swum across the channel, but now it is not allowed.
Zoo\n\nA zoo is a place where many different kinds of animals live so people can come and see them. Good zoos take care of the animals and give them big spaces that feel like their real homes. Zoos help keep animals safe when they are in trouble and might disappear from the world. People learn about animals by watching them at the zoo. Some zoos are not good and keep animals in small, sad cages where they get bored and sick.
Salt\n\nSalt is a white powder that people put on food to make it taste better. It comes from the ground or from the ocean. Long ago, salt was very special and people used it to keep food from going bad. They also used it to trade for other things. In winter, people put salt on icy roads to melt the ice. Salt can be many colors, but the salt we eat is usually white.
Gothic art\n\nGothic art is a kind of art from a long time ago called the Middle Ages. It started in France in the 1100s. Artists made big sculptures on church walls. They also made paintings on wood, colorful glass windows, and pictures in books. Many of these showed stories from the Bible, like Jesus and Mary. Mary looked soft and kind, like a real mom holding baby Jesus. Later, artists also made pictures of everyday life and stories, not just church stories. People in cities had money to buy art, so more art was made.
Grouper\n\nA grouper is a big fish that lives in warm ocean water. It has a big mouth and a strong body. Groupers like to hide near rocks and coral reefs. They sometimes work with octopuses to catch food. People like to catch groupers for eating because they are very tasty.
Safety\n\nSafety is a feeling that no bad things will happen. It means you are not in danger. Police help keep people safe by stopping bad things. A safety hat keeps your head safe from getting hurt. A house gives you safety from rain, wind, and cold. The opposite of safety is danger.
Apology\n\nAn apology is when you say you are sorry. You say it when you did something that made someone else feel sad or upset. Saying sorry can help the other person feel better. It is a way to show that you care about their feelings.
Niger\n\nNiger is a country in western Africa. It is very hot and dry, and much of it is desert. The capital city is Niamey. People there speak Hausa. Niger has no ocean or sea next to it. The country is named after the Niger River. Many people live in small villages and grow food like millet, sorghum, and peanuts. Some animals that live in Niger are giraffes and a special kind of antelope called the addax. Niger is one of the poorest countries in the world, and many people do not have enough food.
Stress (biology)\n\nStress is a feeling inside your body when something is hard or scary. It can make you feel worried or tight. A little bit of stress can help you do your best, like before a race. But too much stress is not good for your body or your mind. It can make you feel sick or very sad. When you feel stressed, you can take a break, play outside, or talk to a friend or family member. Taking deep breaths can also help you feel calm.
Steel\n\nSteel is a very hard and strong metal. It is made by mixing iron with a little bit of carbon. People use steel to make many things, like buildings, bridges, cars, and ships. Steel can be melted down and used again to make new things. It is a very useful metal.
Clown\n\nA clown is a person who makes people laugh. Clowns wear funny clothes and paint their faces with bright colors. They often have big wigs and big shoes. Many clowns work at a circus. They do silly tricks like juggling and falling down on purpose. Some clowns learn how to be funny at a special school. You might see a clown at a birthday party or on TV.
Clan\n\nA clan is a big group of people who are all part of the same family. The word 'clan' means 'family' in an old language. A long time ago, many people in Scotland and Ireland lived in clans. Each clan had its own name and its own special pattern on clothes called a tartan. People in a clan helped each other and stayed together.
Water tower\n\nA water tower is a tall building that holds water. It is built high up so the water can flow down. A machine called a pump fills the tower with water. Then gravity, which is the force that pulls things down, makes the water go through pipes to houses and other buildings. Even when the power goes out, the water tower still works because it does not need electricity to push the water down.
Beach volleyball\n\nBeach volleyball is a game played on sand. Two teams of two players hit a ball over a net. The sand is soft, so players jump and dive to get the ball. They use their hands to hit the ball. The team that makes the ball touch the other side's sand wins a point. People play beach volleyball at the beach or in a sand court.
Price\n\nPrice is how much something costs. You can pay for things with money or trade other things for them. For example, if you want a toy, the price is the money you give to get it. Sometimes people trade things, like eggs for wool. But money makes it easier to know the price.
Population\n\nPopulation is how many people live in a place. A city's population is the number of people who live there. The world has about 8 billion people. Asia has the most people. India has the most people of any country. Some places have many people living close together, like big cities. Other places have few people living far apart, like the countryside. The number of people in the world is growing, but not as fast as before.
Central Africa\n\nCentral Africa is a part of the big continent called Africa. It has many countries like Angola, Cameroon, Chad, and others. These countries work together to help each other.
Gladiolus\n\nA gladiolus is a flower that grows from a round bulb. It has tall stems with many colorful flowers on top. The leaves are long and pointy, like little swords. Gladiolus flowers can be pink, red, purple, white, orange, or yellow. They grow in warm places, especially in Africa. People plant them in gardens to enjoy their pretty colors.
San Antonio\n\nSan Antonio is a big city in Texas, USA. It has about 1.4 million people. The city is known for The Alamo, an old building, and the River Walk, which is a path with shops and restaurants along a small river. San Antonio also has a basketball team called the San Antonio Spurs. Many people visit the city for fun. There are two amusement parks: Six Flags Fiesta Texas and SeaWorld San Antonio. The city has a mix of people, and many speak Spanish because it was once part of Mexico.
Pediatrics\n\nPediatrics is a kind of doctor job that takes care of babies, children, and teenagers. A doctor who does this job is called a pediatrician. Pediatricians help kids stay healthy and grow well. They give shots that keep children from getting sick. They also teach parents about safe food and how to keep kids from getting hurt. Long ago, many children died from sickness, but now shots help stop that. Pediatricians check on children when they are well and when they are sick.
Texas\n\nTexas is a big state in the United States. It is the second biggest state after Alaska. Texas has many large cities like Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, and Austin, which is the capital. Texas is called the "Lone Star State" because its flag has one star. Long ago, Texas was its own country for almost ten years before joining the United States in 1845. Texas has mountains, forests, deserts, plains, and a coast. The Rio Grande river forms the border between Texas and Mexico. People in Texas work on farms, with cattle, and in technology companies. Oil was found in Texas in 1901, which made the state rich. Many tourists visit places like The Alamo in San Antonio and the Johnson Space Center in Houston.
Catfish\n\nA catfish is a fish that lives in rivers and lakes. It is called catfish because it has long feelers near its mouth that look like a cat's whiskers. Some catfish are very big, as long as a car. Some are very small. People eat catfish from fish farms. Some people keep small catfish in fish tanks at home. Most catfish do not hurt people. A few kinds of catfish can give a little shock, like a tiny zap.
Lima bean\n\nA lima bean is a kind of bean that you can eat. It is also called a butter bean. Lima beans grow inside a pod, just like other beans. They are soft and taste a little bit buttery. People cook them and eat them with dinner.
Carbon dioxide\n\nCarbon dioxide is a gas that you cannot see or smell. People and animals breathe out carbon dioxide when they breathe. Plants use carbon dioxide to make their food. Carbon dioxide is also made when things burn, like wood or gas. It is a greenhouse gas, which means it traps heat and can make the Earth warmer. There is a special kind of carbon dioxide called dry ice. Dry ice is very, very cold and turns from a solid straight into a gas. People use dry ice to make fog for shows and to keep things cold.
Ear\n\nThe ear is the part of the body that lets you hear sounds. People and most animals with fur have ears. Some animals like lizards hear through small holes instead of ears that stick out. The ear works by catching sound waves and sending them to the brain. The ear cleans itself by pushing earwax out with help from chewing and talking. The part of the ear you can see is called the pinna. Some animals use their ears in other ways. African elephants flap their big ears to stay cool. Bats use their ears to find food by listening to echoes. Some animals send messages to each other with their ears.
Apartment\n\nAn apartment is a place to live inside a bigger building. Many apartments can be in one building, and each one is a separate home. Apartments are common in cities where there is not much room for houses. People who live in an apartment pay money to the owner, called a landlord, to stay there. Some apartments have one big room for sleeping, eating, and playing, plus a bathroom. Others have separate rooms like a bedroom and a living room. Some apartments are very tall, and some are short with a garden outside. People share hallways and stairs to get to their own apartment.
Spanish literature\n\nSpanish literature is the stories, poems, and plays written in the Spanish language. It comes from the country of Spain. People in Spain have been writing stories and poems for a very long time. Some of these stories are about brave knights, funny adventures, or sad love. Spanish literature also includes writings from places in America where people speak Spanish. Many of these stories are famous all over the world.
Uluru\n\nUluru is a very big rock in the middle of Australia. It is in a hot, dry place called the Outback. The rock is red and looks very tall. Long ago, some people called the Anangu lived near Uluru. They think the rock is a very special and holy place. Many people visit Uluru to see how big and beautiful it is.
Sonar\n\nSonar is a machine that uses sound to find things under water. It sends out a sound and waits for the sound to bounce back, like an echo. This helps people know where boats, fish, or other things are in the sea. Some sonar machines just listen for sounds that other things make. Long ago, a man named Leonardo da Vinci put a tube in the water to listen. Today, sonar helps ships and submarines find their way.
Baobab\n\nA baobab is a very big tree that grows in hot, dry places like Africa and Madagascar. It is sometimes called the "tree of life" because it helps people and animals. The trunk of a baobab is very fat and can hold lots of water, like a giant bottle. For most of the year, the tree has no leaves and looks like its roots are sticking up in the air. The fruit of the baobab is called "monkey bread" and tastes a little like grapefruit and pear. People use the leaves to make soup, and the bark to make cloth and rope. Some baobab trees are so big that people build shops and bars inside the hollow trunk. These trees can live for a very, very long time, maybe even thousands of years.
Hare\n\nA hare is an animal that looks like a big rabbit. It has long ears with black tips. Hares are very fast and can run as fast as a car. They eat grass, leaves, and vegetables like lettuce. In spring, hares chase each other and sometimes box with their paws. A baby hare is called a leveret. Some hares change color in winter to white so they can hide in the snow.
Orange (fruit)\n\nAn orange is a round fruit that is orange in color. It grows on a tree with dark green leaves and small white flowers. The outside of an orange is a tough skin called peel. Inside, the orange is made of segments that are full of juice. Oranges have seeds inside some segments. You can peel the skin off and eat the segments. Oranges taste sweet and are good for you because they have vitamin C, which helps your body grow and stay healthy. Many people drink orange juice for breakfast. The color orange got its name from this fruit.
Taste\n\nTaste is how your tongue tells you what food is like. Your tongue has tiny bumps called taste buds that help you taste sweet, salty, sour, bitter, and umami (a savory taste). Sweet things like candy and fruit give you energy. Salty things like chips help your body work. Sour things like lemons can be sharp. Bitter things like coffee can warn you if something might be bad to eat. Umami is the taste of meat and cheese. Your nose also helps you taste food. When your nose is stuffy, food does not taste as good. Taste keeps you safe and helps you enjoy eating.
Protest song\n\nA protest song is a song that people sing when they want things to be different. The words in the song tell people to make a change. Some protest songs are funny, and some are sad. Long ago, singers like Bob Dylan made protest songs about war. People still sing protest songs today when they want to help fix something in the world.
Respiration\n\nRespiration is how living things get energy from food. All plants and animals do it. When you eat food, your body breaks it down to make energy. This happens inside your cells. Some cells use air to help break down food. That is called aerobic respiration. Other cells can break down food without air. That is called anaerobic respiration. Yeast and some tiny living things do that. They make alcohol and bubbles of gas. Respiration helps you run, play, and grow.
Metropolis\n\nA metropolis is a very big city where many people live. It has more than 500,000 people. A metropolis often has smaller towns and cities around it. The word comes from old Greek words that mean "mother city." Long ago, some big cities like Rome and Athens were metropolises. Today, many big cities around the world are metropolises too.
Ballad\n\nA ballad is a song that tells a story. Long ago, people in England and Ireland sang ballads. Later, people in America, Australia, and North Africa sang them too. Some ballads were written on big sheets of paper and sold. In the 1700s, poets and music makers wrote ballads. In the 1800s, ballads became slow love songs. Today, a ballad can be any love song. A power ballad is a slow love song that rock bands play. It is not as loud or fast as other rock songs. Bands like Poison and Bon Jovi made power ballads.
Human body\n\nThe human body is your body. It is the physical part of a person. Your body has bones, muscles, and skin. You need your muscles and joints to move. Your body can be hurt or get sick. Many people study the human body. Some look at how it is like other animals. Some learn how it works. Artists draw and paint the human body. Your body has many parts that work together to keep you alive.
Dust storm\n\nA dust storm is a storm made of tiny bits of sand and dirt. It happens when a very strong wind blows over dry ground. The wind picks up the sand and dust and carries them high into the air. The sky can turn dark and brown. The wind drops the sand and dirt somewhere else, far away. Dust storms can make it hard to see and hard to breathe.
Honduras\n\nHonduras is a country in Central America. It is next to Guatemala, El Salvador, and Nicaragua. The Pacific Ocean is to the south, and the Gulf of Honduras is to the north. The biggest city and capital is Tegucigalpa. Long ago, the Maya people lived in the western part of Honduras. They built big stone buildings and cities. Later, people from Spain came and took over the land. They made the people work in silver mines. Many people from Africa were brought to work too. Today, many people in Honduras have families from Spain, Africa, and the native people. Honduras grows bananas and ships them to other countries.
Chinese architecture\n\nChinese architecture is the way people in China build houses, temples, and walls. It uses special shapes like curved roofs that look like upside-down boats. The Great Wall of China is a very long wall made of stone and dirt. The Forbidden City is a big palace with many rooms and golden roofs. Other countries in Asia also copied this style of building.
Sedimentary rock\n\nSedimentary rock is a kind of rock made from tiny pieces of sand, mud, and old shells. These pieces fall to the bottom of oceans and lakes and get squished together over a very long time. You can see layers of sedimentary rock in cliffs. Sandstone and limestone are two kinds of sedimentary rock. Some sedimentary rocks have little bits of dead plants and animals in them. Coal is a sedimentary rock made from old plants. Sedimentary rocks cover most of the land on Earth.
Chess\n\nChess is a game for two people on a square board with 64 smaller squares. Each player has 16 pieces: one king, one queen, two rooks, two bishops, two knights, and eight pawns. The goal is to trap the other player's king, which is called checkmate. Players take turns moving one piece at a time. White always goes first. Each piece moves in its own special way. If a piece lands on an opponent's piece, that piece is taken off the board. The game ends when one player's king is trapped, or when a player gives up. Chess is played all over the world, and many people play in tournaments.
Newfoundland\n\nNewfoundland is a big island in the ocean near Canada. It is part of a place called Newfoundland and Labrador. The main city is St. John's. Many people live there, and they are called Newfoundlanders. Most people speak English, and some speak French. Long ago, people from Norway, England, Portugal, France, and Ireland came to live there. The first people were the First Nations. Vikings from Norway also came and built homes. People came because there were lots of fish in the sea. Now there are fewer fish because people caught too many. Some people cut down trees and dig for rocks in the ground. There are no bridges or tunnels to get to Newfoundland, but you can take a boat called a ferry.
Loire River\n\nThe Loire River is a very long river in France. It starts in the middle of France and flows to the Atlantic Ocean. It is the longest river in France. Long ago, boats used the river to carry things to sell. Later, trains became more important, so the river is not used as much for that now.
Starch\n\nStarch is a white powder that you can find in many foods. It has no taste and no smell. Foods like bread, potatoes, pasta, rice, and beans have lots of starch. Starch gives you energy to run and play. If you do not use all the energy, your body turns it into fat. People also use starch to make sauces thick. Some people put starch on clothes to make them smooth and stiff. Starch glue can stick paper, wood, and cloth together.
Early human migrations\n\nA long time ago, people moved from one place to another. The first people lived in Africa. Then, some of them walked to other parts of the world. They crossed land that is now under water.
Wavelength\n\nA wavelength is the distance between two bumps of a wave. Think of a wave like a line that goes up and down. The distance from one top bump to the next top bump is the wavelength. Waves are everywhere, like in water or sound. When a wave goes up and down faster, the wavelength gets shorter.
Sea snake\n\nA sea snake is a snake that lives in the ocean. It has a long, flat tail that helps it swim, like a paddle. Sea snakes cannot move on land. They have special holes on their nose that close underwater and open when they come up to breathe. Most sea snakes eat fish and eels. Some sea snakes have very strong poison, but they usually do not bite people unless they are scared. Sea snakes live in warm ocean waters, but not in the Atlantic Ocean.
Photography\n\nPhotography is a way of making a picture using a camera. A person who makes pictures with a camera is called a photographer. A camera is a box with a hole in the front. There is a special piece of glass called a lens that helps make a small picture inside the camera. To take a picture, you press a button that opens a door called the shutter. Light goes through the lens and makes a picture on film or on a special electronic sensor. Film is a strip that catches the light picture. After the film is taken out, it is put in special chemicals to make the picture stay. Then a machine can make a bigger picture on paper. Digital cameras do not use film. They save the picture on a small card that can be put into a computer. You can also print the picture on paper. To get a good picture, you need to make sure the lens is focused so the picture is not blurry. The picture should not be too bright or too dark.
Cinderella\n\nCinderella is a story about a kind girl who is treated badly by her stepmother and stepsisters. She has to do all the housework and sleep in the attic. One day, a fairy godmother helps her go to a big dance at the prince's castle. She turns a pumpkin into a coach and mice into horses. Cinderella wears a beautiful dress and glass slippers. She must leave the dance before midnight. When she runs away, she loses one glass slipper. The prince finds the slipper and tries it on every girl in the land. It fits Cinderella's foot. The prince marries her, and she forgives her stepsisters.
North Island\n\nThe North Island is one of two big islands that make up the country of New Zealand. It is smaller than the other island. A big water called Cook Strait sits between them. Many people live on the North Island. The biggest city on the island is Auckland. The capital city, Wellington, is at the bottom of the island. The North Island has twelve cities. Most of the people in New Zealand live here.
Porridge\n\nPorridge is a hot food made by boiling oats in water or milk. It is usually eaten for breakfast in a bowl. Some people add jam, sugar, or syrup to make it sweet. In Scotland and Finland, people add salt instead. Porridge is soft and easy to eat, so it is good for sick people. Long ago, prisoners in jail often ate porridge, and that is why people say "doing porridge" when someone is in prison.
Lard\n\nLard is fat from a pig that has been melted and cleaned. People use it for cooking and baking. It makes food taste good and helps make pie crusts flaky. Long ago, many people used lard instead of butter. Today, some cooks still like to use lard for certain foods.
Fat\n\nFat is a part of food that gives your body energy. There are three kinds of fat: unsaturated, saturated, and trans. Unsaturated fat is good for you and is found in foods like avocados, nuts, and fish. Saturated fat is not as good and is in meat and dairy. Trans fat is very bad and is in fried foods and baked goods. Your body needs some fat to stay warm and to use vitamins, but too much fat can make you sick. Eating too much bad fat can hurt your heart and make you gain too much weight. To stay healthy, eat good fats and exercise.
Fireplace\n\nA fireplace is a place inside a house where you can make a fire. It is made of bricks or metal. The fire sits in a special part called the firebox. A chimney goes up from the firebox to let the smoke go outside. Long ago, many homes had fireplaces to keep people warm. People also used them to cook food. Today, some houses still have fireplaces, but many homes use heaters instead.
Angel\n\nAn angel is a good spirit that many people believe in. The word angel means "messenger." Angels are said to be very powerful and do what God asks them to do. Sometimes they look like people and bring messages. Some angels have names like Michael, Gabriel, and Raphael. In stories, angels can appear in dreams or in real life. They can also look like they have wings. Some angels are called cherubs or seraphs. People read about angels in books like the Bible and the Qur'an.
Bladder\n\nThe bladder is a part of your body that holds pee. When you drink water, your kidneys clean it and send it to the bladder. The bladder gets bigger as it fills up, like a balloon. When it is full, it tells your brain you need to go to the bathroom. Then the muscles squeeze and the pee comes out through a small tube. All mammals have a bladder.
Navajo\n\nThe Navajo are a group of Native American people. They live in the southwestern part of the United States. Many Navajo live on a big piece of land called a reservation. The reservation is in Arizona, New Mexico, and Utah. The Navajo have their own government. They also have their own language, called Din. Some Navajo speak Din, and some speak English. The Navajo are good at raising sheep and goats. They use the wool from sheep to make cloth. Navajo women often own the sheep. The Navajo have special ceremonies to help sick people get better. Some ceremonies last for many days. Navajo people do not like to interrupt when someone is talking. They also do not always look at the person they are talking to. Navajo children are in the same clan as their mother. A clan is like a big family. Navajo people cannot marry someone from the same clan. The number four is important in Navajo culture. There are four seasons, four directions, and four holy mountains. During World War II, some Navajo helped the United States Marines. They used their language to send secret messages. The messages were very fast and the enemy could not understand them. These Navajo were called code talkers.
Dahlia\n\nA dahlia is a plant with big, bright flowers. It comes from Mexico and other warm places. People grow dahlias in gardens. The flowers can be many colors like red, yellow, pink, and purple. Dahlias like to grow where the sun is not too strong.
World Heritage Site\n\nA World Heritage Site is a very special place in the world. A group called UNESCO picks these places because they are important for nature or for people. Some sites are forests, mountains, lakes, or deserts. Other sites are buildings, cities, or old monuments. There are more than one thousand World Heritage Sites in many countries. Italy has the most sites of any country. UNESCO wants everyone to help keep these places safe. Sometimes UNESCO gives money to protect a site. Each year, a committee meets to choose new sites. To be chosen, a place must be very special and important for everyone in the world.
Lottery\n\nA lottery is a game where people pick numbers to try to win money. You buy a ticket with numbers on it. If your numbers match the ones that are picked, you win a prize. Some countries let people play the lottery, and some do not. In the United States, many people play the lottery. The money from tickets helps pay for things like schools and roads.
Athena\n\nAthena is a Greek goddess. She is the goddess of wisdom, war, and crafts. Her symbol is an owl. She wears a helmet and carries a shield. The shield has Medusa's head on it. Athena was born from Zeus's head, already grown up and wearing armor. She helped heroes like Perseus and Jason. She gave Athens the first olive tree, so the city was named after her. Her temple is the Parthenon in Athens.
Crystal\n\nA crystal is a hard thing that is made of tiny parts that line up in a pattern over and over. Crystals can grow from water or air. Snow is a crystal made of ice from water in the air. Some crystals are made when heat and pressure push on a rock, like diamond. Crystals often have flat, shiny sides that sparkle in the light. People cut crystals to make pretty jewelry. Salt is a crystal that looks like little cubes. Quartz and diamond are other kinds of crystals.
Rope\n\nA rope is made of many small threads twisted together. It can be made from plants like flax or from thin metal wires. Rope is very strong and hard to pull apart. People use rope to lift heavy things or to pull boats. Rope can also tie things so they stay in one place. People have used rope for a very long time, even in old Egypt.
Latin script\n\nThe Latin script is a way of writing that uses letters like the ones you see in this book. It is also called the Roman script. Many languages use it, including English, Spanish, French, and German. A long time ago, the Romans made this alphabet. Today, it is the most used writing system in the world. The letters come in big and small sizes, like A and a. Some languages add little marks above or below letters to show how to say them. English does not use those marks for its own words. People also use the Latin script to write languages that normally use other letters, like Chinese and Japanese, so they can type on a computer.
Meteorology\n\nMeteorology is about the air around our Earth. People who study it are called meteorologists. They check how hot or cold it is, how fast the wind blows, and how much water is in the air. They use this information to tell us what the weather will be like tomorrow. They also study how weather changes over a long time.
Cousin\n\nA cousin is a person in your family who is not your brother or sister. Your cousin is the child of your aunt or uncle. You and your cousin share the same grandparents. Many children have cousins they can play with at family parties.
Mars (mythology)\n\nMars is a make-believe person from old stories. He was the god of war, which means he liked fighting and battles. His mom was Juno and his dad was Jupiter. He had two baby boys named Romulus and Remus, and another son named Cupid. The planet Mars and the month March are named after him. In Greek stories, his name is Ares. He often tried to make the other gods fight each other.
Plate tectonics\n\nThe Earth's outside is like a big puzzle made of giant pieces called plates. These plates are not still; they move very slowly, like floating on thick, hot goo underneath. When plates bump into each other, they can push up mountains or make the ground shake in an earthquake. Sometimes hot rock from deep inside comes out through cracks and makes volcanoes. The plates are under the oceans and under the land. The ocean plates are thinner and heavier, so they dive under the land plates when they meet. This moving and bumping is called plate tectonics.
Mexico City\n\nMexico City is a big city in a country called Mexico. It is the capital, which means the most important city in that country. Many, many people live there. The city is high up on a big flat land called a plateau. Long ago, it was built on a lake, but the lake was drained to make room for houses and streets. Mexico City has mountains all around it. Sometimes the ground shakes, and that is called an earthquake. The weather is warm or mild all year, but summer is rainier than winter. Many people live close together, so the air can get dirty.
Arc de Triomphe\n\nThe Arc de Triomphe is a very big arch in Paris, France. It stands in the middle of a big round road. A long time ago, a leader named Napoleon asked for it to be built after a big win in a war. The arch is very tall, over 160 feet high. You can climb up many steps to the top and see the city. Under the arch, there is a special place for a soldier who is not known. The names of generals and battles are written on the walls. Cars drive around it, but not through it.
Bird of prey\n\nA bird of prey is a bird that hunts other animals for food. It has strong, sharp claws called talons to grab its food. It also has a sharp, hooked beak and very good eyesight to see small animals from far away. Some birds of prey hunt during the day, like eagles and hawks. Others hunt at night, like owls. These birds are very good at catching mice, fish, and other small animals.
Southern United States\n\nThe Southern United States is a part of the country where summers are long and hot, and winters are short and cool. It rains a lot there, so many plants grow well. Farmers grow cotton, tobacco, peanuts, and peaches. People in the South eat special foods like fried chicken and biscuits. Most people who live there have families from England, Scotland, Ireland, or Africa.
Ovenbird\n\nAn ovenbird is a small bird that sings. It builds a nest that looks like a little oven. The nest has a door on the side. The ovenbird lives in the eastern part of North America in the summer. In the winter, it flies to warm places like Central America and Florida. This bird walks on the ground instead of hopping like many other birds.
Chickenpox\n\nChickenpox is a sickness that mostly kids get. It makes little red spots on your skin that turn into blisters filled with water. The blisters can itch a lot, but you should not scratch them. You might also get a fever. Chickenpox goes away in a few days. There is a shot that can help keep you from getting it.
Lighthouse\n\nA lighthouse is a tall building that shines a bright light. It is built near the ocean or a big lake. The light helps boats stay safe and not hit the shore. The light turns around so boats see a flash. The light can be seen from far away. Long ago, a famous lighthouse was on an island called Pharos. Today, most lighthouses work by themselves.
Hard disk\n\nA hard disk is a part inside a computer that keeps your pictures, games, and stories safe. It looks like a small metal box. The hard disk spins very fast and uses a tiny arm to read and write information. Some hard disks can hold a lot of things, like thousands of songs. If you drop a hard disk, it might break and make a clicking sound. That means it is hurt and cannot work anymore. Hard disks come in different sizes and spin at different speeds. The faster they spin, the quicker they can find your stuff.
Tribe\n\nA tribe is a group of people who live and work together. They share the same way of life, like how they talk, what they believe, and what they do. A tribe has a leader called a chief. Long ago, people lived in tribes before they lived in big cities. Today, there are still tribes in many parts of the world. Some tribes move from place to place to find food, and some grow their own food.
Bread\n\nBread is a food that is baked in an oven. It is made from flour and water, with a little salt and yeast. You can eat bread by itself, toast it, or use it to make a sandwich. Bread comes in many colors and tastes. White bread is made from light flour, and brown bread is made from darker flour. People all over the world eat bread. Some people use bread in their religion. For example, Jewish people eat a special flat bread called matzo during Passover.
Mortgage\n\nA mortgage is a way to borrow money to buy a house. The bank gives you money to pay for the house, and you promise to pay the bank back little by little each month. The house is like a promise that if you cannot pay, the bank can take the house. People use mortgages to get a home to live in.
Hair\n\nHair is thin, soft stuff that grows from your skin. People have hair on their heads, and animals have hair all over their bodies. Animal hair is often called fur. Sheep and goats have curly hair called wool, which people use to make warm clothes and blankets. Hair can be many colors like black, brown, blond, or red. Your hair color comes from your mom and dad. As people get older, their hair may turn white or gray. Some men lose hair on their heads and become bald. People like to brush and style their hair to look nice.
Sow bug\n\nA sow bug is a tiny animal with many legs. It has fourteen legs and a hard shell on its back. Sow bugs live in damp places like under rocks or wet leaves. They need water in the air to breathe. They eat dead plants and help clean up the ground. When a sow bug is scared, it can roll up into a little ball. Its hard shell protects its soft body. Sow bugs are not insects. They are cousins of shrimps and crabs.
Parchment\n\nParchment is a thin material made from animal skin. People used it long ago to write on, like the pages of a book. It is not the same as leather because it is made in a different way. The best kind of parchment is called vellum.
Sales tax\n\nSales tax is extra money you pay when you buy something. When you go to a store and buy a toy or a snack, the price on the tag is not the full price. You have to pay a little more money on top. That extra money is called sales tax. The store gives that extra money to the government. The government uses it to pay for things like roads, schools, and parks. Some things you need, like food or medicine, do not have sales tax. Different places have different amounts of sales tax. Some places have a lot, and some have only a little.
Morocco\n\nMorocco is a country in North Africa. The capital is Rabat, and the biggest city is Casablanca. Morocco has mountains, forests, farms, and deserts. Many people live near the coast. The people are called Moroccans, and they speak Arabic and Berber. Most Moroccans follow Islam. Tourists visit Morocco to see old buildings, warm beaches, and the countryside.
Virtue\n\nVirtue is when someone does good things. A person who is kind, brave, and fair has virtue. The opposite of virtue is being bad or mean. Long ago, people said virtue means being fair, brave, smart, and not too much of anything. Other people said virtue means believing in good things, hoping for good things, and loving others.
Running\n\nRunning is how people and animals move fast on their feet. When you run, both feet leave the ground at the same time. Running is different from walking. Slow running is called jogging, and fast running is called sprinting. Many people run for exercise because it is good for your body. It helps your heart and lungs, and it keeps you fit. Running can also make you feel happy and less worried. When you run, you get thirsty, so you should drink water. People have races to see who can run the fastest. Some races are short, like sprints, and some are long, like marathons. Running races have been around for a very long time, even in the old Olympic Games.
City\n\nA city is a place where many people live close together. It has lots of buildings, streets, houses, and shops. People live in cities because it is easy to find everything they need. Some cities are very old and have walls around them. Other cities are new and have wide streets for cars and buses. Big cities can have trains and airports. People in cities work, play, and live in apartments or houses. Some cities are so big that they are called megacities.
Wedding\n\nA wedding is a party where two people get married. They say special words to each other and give rings. The party after the wedding is called a reception. People eat cake, dance, and have fun. The two people who get married often wear nice clothes. Sometimes the bride wears a white dress. After the wedding, they go on a trip called a honeymoon.
Mancala\n\nMancala is a game where you move seeds on a board with little holes. People play it in Africa, the Middle East, and central Asia. You pick up seeds from one hole and drop them one by one into the next holes. The player who gets the most seeds wins.
Paralympic Games\n\nThe Paralympic Games are a big sports event. People with bodies that work differently compete in these games. Some cannot walk and use a wheelchair. Some cannot see well. Some have an arm or leg that is missing. The games happen right after the Olympic Games. The first Paralympic Games were for soldiers who got hurt in a war. Now many people from all over the world come to play sports like running, swimming, and basketball. They are very strong and fast athletes.
Excretion\n\nExcretion is how your body gets rid of things it does not need. When you go to the bathroom, that is excretion. Your body also gets rid of bad air when you breathe out. If your body did not get rid of these things, you would get sick. Animals like birds and reptiles get rid of waste as a white paste. Fish get rid of waste right into the water.
Literacy\n\nLiteracy is when you can read and write. People learn to read and write at school. If you can read and write, you are called literate. If you cannot, you are called illiterate. Some people do not learn to read because they do not need it for their daily life. In some places, more people cannot read than in others. Reading and writing help you learn new things.
Combine harvester\n\nA combine harvester is a big machine that works on farms. It cuts plants like wheat and corn, takes the seeds off, and blows away the leftover parts, all at once. This machine helps farmers get food from the fields much faster than doing it by hand. Because of the combine harvester, not as many people need to work on farms anymore.
Rosh Hashanah\n\nRosh Hashanah is a Jewish holiday that is like a New Year celebration. It lasts for two days. People eat sweet foods like apples dipped in honey to wish for a sweet year. They also send happy greetings to family and friends. This holiday is a time to think about good things and say sorry for mistakes.
Steppe\n\nA steppe is a big, flat piece of land with no trees. It is covered with grass and small plants. Steppes are too dry for forests but not as dry as deserts. They get a little bit of rain. The biggest steppe is in Russia. People who live on the steppe often move from place to place with their animals. In Mongolia, families live in big tents called gers. They ride horses and use animals for food and drink. Long ago, cowboys in the United States herded cattle on the steppe.
Percussion instrument\n\nPercussion instruments are things you hit or shake to make music. A person who plays them is called a percussionist. Some percussion instruments can play tunes, like the xylophone and timpani. Others make sounds but not tunes, like the drum, maracas, and cymbals. In an orchestra, there are many kinds of percussion instruments. Sometimes people even use things like typewriters or milk bottles as percussion. Drum sets are used in rock and jazz music. A percussionist must keep a steady beat so the other players can follow.
Mexican food\n\nMexican food is food from the country of Mexico. Corn, beans, and chili peppers are very important in Mexican cooking. Tacos are a popular Mexican dish. They are made with a soft or hard tortilla filled with meat, beans, or vegetables. You can add salsa, sour cream, or guacamole on top. Enchiladas are another dish. They are corn tortillas rolled up with meat or cheese inside and covered with a spicy sauce. Guacamole is a dip made from mashed avocados mixed with tomatoes, onions, and cilantro. It tastes creamy and goes well with many Mexican foods.
Central African Republic\n\nThe Central African Republic is a country in the middle of Africa. It is a flat, high piece of land with thick forests in the south where rare gorillas live. The capital city is Bangui. Most people grow their own food, but sometimes there is no rain for a long time, which makes it hard. The country sells diamonds, cotton, coffee, and wood to other countries. People there speak French and a language called Sango.
India\n\nIndia is a big country in Asia. It is the country with the most people in the world. India has the Indian Ocean, the Arabian Sea, and the Bay of Bengal around it. The tall Himalayan mountains are in the north. Many different languages and religions are in India. Most people follow Hinduism. The capital city is New Delhi. India has a space agency that sends rockets to the Moon and Mars. India became free from British rule in 1947. People celebrate Republic Day every year on January 26. India has many famous buildings like the Taj Mahal. Indian movies and music are loved around the world.
Amun\n\nAmun was a very powerful god in ancient Egypt. People believed he made himself and then made everything else. He was called the hidden one. He wore a tall hat with two feathers on top. Sometimes he was shown sitting on a throne. Later, people mixed Amun with the sun god Ra and called him Amun-Ra. He was the king of the gods and helped the pharaoh. Many people gave gifts to his temple.
Visible spectrum\n\nThe visible spectrum is the colors we can see with our eyes. It is like a rainbow. The colors are red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and purple. These colors come from light. A computer or TV screen uses red, green, and blue light to make all the colors you see.
Monotreme\n\nMonotremes are a special kind of mammal that lay eggs. Most other mammals have babies that come out alive, but monotremes lay eggs like birds do. Even though they lay eggs, they still feed their babies with milk. Monotremes have one opening at the back for everything, like going to the bathroom and having babies. They live in Australia and New Guinea. The two kinds of monotremes are platypus and echidnas. There is one platypus called the duck-billed platypus, and there are four kinds of echidnas. Monotremes are very old animals that have been around for a very long time.
Ionian Sea\n\nThe Ionian Sea is a big body of water that is part of the Mediterranean Sea. It sits next to Italy on one side and Greece on the other. There are many islands in this sea, like Corfu and Kephalonia. People ride on big boats called ferries across the Ionian Sea to travel between Greece and Italy. The ground under this sea sometimes shakes because it is a very active place.
Butane\n\nButane is a gas that comes from the ground. It is used to make fire. People put butane in lighters to make a flame. It is also used in camping stoves for cooking food. Some spray cans have butane inside to push out the spray. Butane can be dangerous. If you breathe too much of it, you cannot get enough air. If it touches your skin, it can hurt because it is very cold. Butane can also explode if there is a spark near it.
Flour\n\nFlour is a powder made from grains like wheat. People use flour to make bread, pasta, cookies, cakes, and tortillas. To make flour, grains are put between two stones or steel wheels and rubbed together until they become powder. Some flour has a special helper that makes baked foods puff up and become soft and fluffy. That kind is called self-raising flour. Flour without that helper is called all-purpose flour or plain flour. You can also make flour at home from things like pumpkins, rice, or nuts. Flour has good things in it that help your body stay healthy.
Minute\n\nA minute is a way to measure time. It is as long as 60 seconds. There are 60 minutes in one hour. A minute can also be used to measure how big something looks in the sky, like the Sun or the Moon.
Fast food\n\nFast food is food that a restaurant makes very quickly. You can buy it and eat it right away. Places like McDonald's and Burger King sell fast food. They have a short list of things to eat, like hamburgers and fries. Fast food has a lot of salt and fat, and not many good things for your body. Eating too much fast food can make you sick.
Lahore\n\nLahore is a big city in Pakistan. It is the second biggest city in that country. Lahore is called the 'City of Gardens' because it has many parks and gardens. The city is known for its fun and lively feel. Many movies are made there. Long ago, a king named Lava started the city. It has old buildings like the Badshahi Mosque and the Lahore Fort. People visit the Shalimar Gardens too. Lahore has many schools and colleges. The food there is very good. People from all over come to eat at the food street. The city is also a place where people are kind to each other.
Great Slave Lake\n\nGreat Slave Lake is a very big lake in Canada. It is the deepest lake in North America. The lake is long and wide. People live in towns around the lake, like Yellowknife and Hay River. Long ago, First Nations people lived there first. In winter, the lake freezes and people can drive a car on the ice to go from Yellowknife to Dettah. Birds called whooping cranes live near the lake too.
Rye\n\nRye is a type of grass that people grow for food. It looks like wheat and barley. People use rye to make flour for bread, like a dark bread called pumpernickel. Rye is also fed to animals. It is a strong plant that can grow in soil that is too sour or too sweet for other plants. Rye grows in many places, especially in Europe.
Tsetse fly\n\nA tsetse fly is a big biting fly that lives in warm parts of Africa. It bites animals and people to drink their blood. Tsetse flies can make people very sick with a disease called sleeping sickness. A mother tsetse fly keeps one baby inside her body and feeds it milk until it grows big. Then the baby crawls into the ground and turns into a hard shell. After about 20 to 30 days, a grown fly comes out. People catch tsetse flies using big blue cloths. Another way to stop them is to let out male flies that cannot have babies.
Navigation\n\nNavigation is how you find out where you are and how to get to another place. Long ago, people used the stars, birds, and clouds to find their way across the ocean. The North Star always points north, so sailors could tell which way to go. Today, many people use a tool called GPS to help them find the right path.
Igneous rock\n\nIgneous rock is a kind of rock that comes from very hot melted rock inside the Earth. When the hot melted rock comes out of the ground, it is called lava. Lava cools and turns into hard rock like basalt. Sometimes the hot rock cools slowly deep underground and makes rocks like granite. Igneous rock is made of tiny pieces called minerals. Some igneous rocks are light and full of holes, like pumice. Others are smooth and shiny, like obsidian. Most of the Earth's top layer is made of igneous rock.
Tragedy (Greek theatre)\n\nA tragedy is a kind of play that ends very sadly. The main person in the play is good but has one big problem that gets him into trouble. No matter what he does, things get worse and worse. Long ago in Greece, people watched these plays at big parties. Some famous writers of tragedies were Shakespeare and the Greeks. Sometimes people also call a very sad real-life event a tragedy.
Farmer\n\nA farmer is a person who grows food for us to eat. Farmers plant seeds in the ground and take care of plants like corn, wheat, and apples. They also raise animals like cows, chickens, and pigs. The food from the farm goes to stores so we can buy it. Farmers work outside in the sun and rain to help us have food on our tables.
Gobi Desert\n\nThe Gobi Desert is a very big, dry place in Asia. It is in two countries: Mongolia and China. The Gobi is the biggest desert in Asia and the sixth biggest in the whole world. It is a cold desert with hot summers and freezing winters. The high mountains nearby stop rain from reaching the Gobi, so it stays very dry. Many animals live in the Gobi Desert, like the Bactrian camel with two humps, the Gobi bear, and the snow leopard. There are also wild sheep and goats. Plants that grow there are short grasses and sagebrush.
Nutrition\n\nNutrition is about the food your body needs to grow and stay healthy. Your body uses food for energy to run and play. There are six kinds of food your body needs: carbohydrates, fats, minerals, proteins, vitamins, and water. Carbohydrates give you energy and are in vegetables. Protein helps build your muscles and is in milk, meat, fish, beans, and eggs. Fats are in foods like cake and chocolate, but some fats are not good for you. Vitamins and minerals help your body work right. You also need to drink water every day. Eating different kinds of food helps you stay strong and feel good.
Distillation\n\nDistillation is a way to take apart a mix of two or more liquids. You heat the mix until one liquid turns into steam. Then you cool the steam so it turns back into a liquid. That clean liquid is called the distillate. The stuff left behind is called the residue. People use distillation to make clean water from salty water. They also use it to make perfume and some drinks. A big machine called a distillation column can separate many liquids at once, like at an oil factory.
Chariot\n\nA chariot is a kind of cart that horses pull. Long ago, people used chariots to ride from place to place. A person who rides a chariot is called a charioteer. In old stories, the gods Poseidon and Athena made the first chariot together.
Deductive reasoning\n\nDeductive reasoning is a way of thinking. You start with a big rule and then use it to figure out one thing. For example: All dogs bark. This is a dog. So it barks. The first two ideas are called premises. The last idea is the answer. It is like going from the top down.
Weight\n\nWeight is how heavy something is. It is a force that pulls things down toward the ground. On Earth, everything has weight because the ground pulls on it. A big rock has more weight than a small rock. You can measure weight with a scale. A spring scale has a spring that stretches when you put something on it. The scale shows how heavy the thing is. Weight is not the same as how much stuff something has. If you go to the Moon, your weight changes because the Moon pulls less. But the amount of stuff in you stays the same.
Consumer electronics\n\nConsumer electronics are things that use electricity and are made for people to use at home. Some examples are telephones, TVs, music players, and calculators. These things help us talk to people far away, watch shows, do math, and listen to music. Sometimes they stop working after a while, and then we have to get new ones.
Badminton\n\nBadminton is a game you play with a racket and a shuttlecock. The shuttlecock is a small thing with feathers that flies through the air. You hit it over a net. You can play with one other person or with two people on each side. The goal is to hit the shuttlecock so the other side cannot hit it back. If you do that, you get a point. The first side to get 21 points wins. The game started a long time ago in India and England. Now many people play it in Asia. It is also in the Olympic Games.
Albania\n\nAlbania is a country in Europe, near Greece and Italy. It has a coast on the sea. The capital is Tirana. Over 3 million people live there. Many people speak Albanian. The flag has a black eagle with two heads. Albania has high mountains and many kinds of animals and plants.
Ivory\n\nIvory is a hard, yellowish-white material that comes from the big teeth of animals like elephants, hippos, and walruses. People used to make things like piano keys, balls for games, and small pretty carvings from ivory. Now ivory is very rare and expensive because there are rules that stop people from hunting elephants for their tusks. Many things that were once made from ivory are now made from plastic instead.
Bolivia\n\nBolivia is a country in South America. It is landlocked, which means no part of it touches the ocean. The big mountains called the Andes are in the west. There is also a very big lake called Lake Titicaca. Some parts of Bolivia have rainforest. The main languages are Spanish and Quechua. People in Bolivia like to play football in the street. There is a big festival in Oruro with music and dancing. The national flower is called the Cantuta.
Jeju Island\n\nJeju Island is a big island near South Korea. It is the biggest island off the coast of Korea. The island has a tall, sleeping volcano called Hallasan. Hallasan is the highest place in South Korea. The island is made of hard black rock from old volcanoes. Many people go to Jeju Island for a holiday. Even in winter, it is not very cold there. The island is 73 kilometers wide from east to west and 31 kilometers wide from north to south.
Fibre\n\nA fibre is a long, thin, and bendy piece of stuff, like a thread. Some fibres come from plants, like cotton. Others come from animals, like wool from sheep and silk from bugs. People also make fibres in factories, like nylon and polyester. Fibres can be twisted together to make string, rope, or cloth. They help hold plants and animals together inside their bodies.
Ballroom dance\n\nBallroom dance is a kind of dancing where two people dance together. A man and a woman hold hands and move to music. There are many types of ballroom dances. Some are slow and smooth, like the waltz. Others are fast and bouncy, like the quickstep. Some are from Latin America, like the cha-cha-cha and samba. People can dance ballroom for fun at parties. Some people also compete to see who dances best. In competitions, women wear pretty dresses and men wear fancy suits. The most famous ballroom dancers were Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, but they danced in movies, not in ballrooms. Another famous pair was Vernon and Irene Castle. Many people learn ballroom dance at dance schools.
Oyster\n\nAn oyster is a sea animal with a rough, hard shell. It lives in the water and has two shells that open and close. People can eat oysters, often raw or cooked. Oysters used to be very common and cheap, but now they cost more money. Some oysters make pearls inside their shells. Pearls are small, round, and shiny. Oysters are taken from the water and cleaned before people eat them.
Anteater\n\nAn anteater is an animal that lives in South America and Central America. It eats ants and termites. It has long, sharp claws and a very long, sticky tongue. Its tongue can be as long as your arm. The anteater uses its claws to open an ant nest. Then it licks up the ants with its tongue. Big anteaters walk on the ground by bending their front toes under, like a gorilla. Small anteaters live in trees and walk differently.
Country\n\nA country is a big piece of land where people live together. Each country has its own rules and a leader who helps make decisions. There are many countries in the world, like the United States, China, and France. Some countries are very big, and some are very small. People in a country often speak the same language and share the same flag. Sometimes two countries do not agree about who owns a piece of land, and that is called a dispute.
Paradise\n\nParadise is a place where everything is good. Some people call it heaven. In stories, paradise is a happy place with no sadness or pain.
Computer program\n\nA computer program is a list of steps that tells a computer what to do. The computer does everything by following these steps. Today's computers can store many programs in their memory. A program is kept as a file on the computer. When you open the program, the computer reads the file and does what the steps say. The steps can be simple, like "add numbers" or "save letters." A person called a programmer writes the program using a special language like BASIC or Java. Then the computer turns it into a code of ones and zeroes that it understands. Some programs are bad and are called malware. They can try to steal information or hurt the computer.
Spinach\n\nSpinach is a green vegetable with leaves you can eat. It comes from faraway places in Asia. Its flowers are tiny and yellow. Spinach has vitamins that help your body stay strong and healthy. It also has iron, which helps your blood. Some people think spinach makes you strong, like in cartoons.
Ecosystem\n\nAn ecosystem is a place where plants, animals, and tiny living things all live together. It can be big like a forest or small like a fish tank. In a pond ecosystem, you might find frogs, bugs, and water plants. In a desert ecosystem, there are cacti and small snakes. Everything in an ecosystem is connected. Plants use sunlight to make food, and animals eat the plants or other animals. The weather and rain can change an ecosystem over time. Some ecosystems, like rainforests, have stayed the same for a very long time.
Altar\n\nAn altar is a special table used in some churches and other places where people pray. It is where a priest or leader does holy work. Long ago, people used altars to give gifts to God. Today, you might see an altar at the front of a church.
Blood transfusion\n\nBlood transfusion is when a doctor puts blood from one person into another person's body. This can help someone who lost a lot of blood from a cut or a big hurt. The blood is kept in a special cold place called a blood bank until it is needed. Not all blood is the same, so the doctor checks to make sure the blood is safe before giving it.
Crustacean\n\nCrustaceans are animals that live in water, like crabs, lobsters, shrimp, and barnacles. They have a hard shell on the outside and many legs that bend. Most crustaceans live in the ocean, but some live in rivers or on land. They grow by shedding their old shell and making a new one. People eat many crustaceans, like shrimp and crab.
Midwestern United States\n\nThe Midwestern United States is a big area in the middle of America. It has many states like Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, and others. The land has rolling hills, flat prairies, and some mountains. There are big farms with corn and wheat. Chicago is the biggest city there. People in the Midwest are often friendly and open. Many different kinds of music started there, like jazz, blues, and rock and roll. The way people talk in the Midwest sounds like the American English you hear on TV.
Prism (optics)\n\nA prism is a special piece of glass or plastic that bends light. When light goes through a prism, it splits into many colors. Those colors are red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and purple. They look just like a rainbow. Rainbows happen when light bends in tiny water drops in the sky. Some binoculars and cameras have prisms inside to help you see far away or take pictures.
Investment\n\nInvestment is when you give money to a bank or a company so that later you can get more money back. People buy shares of a company, which is like owning a tiny piece of it. Sometimes the money grows, and sometimes it shrinks. If the investment loses money, it is smart to wait and not take it out right away. It is like planting a seed and waiting for it to grow.
Nepal\n\nNepal is a country in Asia, high up in the mountains. It is not next to any ocean. Nepal has some of the tallest mountains in the world, like Mount Everest. The capital city is Kathmandu. Many different groups of people live in Nepal, and they speak many different languages. Most people in Nepal work on farms, growing food like rice and wheat. Nepal has many holidays, more than any other country. The people celebrate festivals like Dashain and Tihar.
Lunar eclipse\n\nA lunar eclipse is when the moon goes into the Earth's shadow. This happens about two times every year. The moon does not turn black. It looks red-brown instead. That is because some sunlight bends around the Earth and hits the moon. Red light bends the most, so the moon looks red. You can look at a lunar eclipse with your eyes. It is safe. But never look at a solar eclipse with your eyes. That hurts your eyes. Sometimes the whole moon is in the shadow. That is a total lunar eclipse. Sometimes only part of the moon is in the shadow. That is a partial lunar eclipse.
Patriotism\n\nPatriotism is a big feeling of love for your own country. A person who feels this way is called a patriot. Patriots want to help their country and be kind to the people who live there. They are proud of their country and want to make it a good place for everyone.
Barometer\n\nA barometer is a tool that measures how hard the air is pushing on things. It can tell if the weather will be sunny or rainy. Some barometers use water or a special metal box to work. The first barometer was made a long time ago by a man named Torricelli. People also use barometers to find out how high a mountain is or how deep a mine is. A barograph is a kind of barometer that draws a picture of the air pressure on paper.
Eye\n\nYour eye is a round part of your body that helps you see. It works like a little camera. Light goes into your eye through a clear part in the front. Inside, there are special cells that send messages to your brain, and your brain tells you what you are looking at. Some animals have eyes that can see light that people cannot see, like ultraviolet or infrared light. Many people wear glasses to help their eyes see better. Your eyes can see colors, movement, and small details.
Kurdish people\n\nKurdish people are a group of people who live in a mountainous area called Kurdistan. This area is in parts of Turkey, Iran, Iraq, and Syria. Many Kurds speak a language called Kurdish. Long ago, most Kurds moved from place to place with their animals. Today, many Kurds live in cities and work as farmers. Most Kurds are Muslim, which is a kind of religion. Some Kurds are Jewish or follow other religions.
Saint Nicholas\n\nSaint Nicholas was a kind man who lived a long time ago. He was a bishop, which means he was a leader in a church. He had a lot of money, but he gave it away to poor people. He helped children and sailors who were in trouble. People remember him because he was very generous. Today, many people know him as Santa Claus, the man who brings presents at Christmas. Many churches around the world are named after Saint Nicholas.
South Africa\n\nSouth Africa is a country at the bottom of Africa. Many people live there, about fifty-seven million. The biggest city is Johannesburg. South Africa has three capital cities: Cape Town, Pretoria, and Bloemfontein. People speak many languages there, like English, Zulu, and Afrikaans. There are eleven official languages. Lions, cheetahs, zebras, and giraffes live in South Africa. Nelson Mandela was a famous leader who helped make things fair for everyone. The country has lots of gold and diamonds. It is sunny and warm in many places, and there are big mountains and long beaches.
Frog\n\nA frog is a small animal that can live on land and in water. Frogs have smooth, wet skin and no tail when they grow up. They start as eggs called frogspawn, then become tadpoles with tails, and finally grow into frogs with long legs. Frogs use their long tongues to catch bugs to eat. They make a sound called a croak. Frogs can jump very far with their strong legs. Some frogs live in trees, and some have poison on their skin to keep safe. Frogs are cold-blooded, so they need warm weather to be active. They live all over the world in ponds, rivers, and other wet places.
Chinese food\n\nChinese food is the food that comes from China. It is a big part of Chinese culture. People eat rice, noodles, and tofu. They use soy sauce and drink tea. They eat with chopsticks and cook in a wok. There are four main kinds of Chinese food from different parts of China.
London\n\nLondon is a big city in England. It is the capital of England and the United Kingdom. Many people live there, almost 9 million. London sits on a river called the Thames. A long time ago, the Romans built a city there and called it Londinium. London has many famous places like the big clock called Big Ben, the London Eye, and Buckingham Palace where the king or queen lives. People ride on red double-decker buses and the Underground train, which is called the Tube. London has many parks, museums, and shops. Many people from all over the world visit London every year.
Farm\n\nA farm is a big piece of land where people grow plants and raise animals. The people who do this work are called farmers. They grow food like corn, wheat, and vegetables. They also keep animals like cows, pigs, and chickens. Some farms are small and the family eats the food they grow. Other farms are very big and sell the food to stores in cities. Farms give us most of the food we eat every day.
Alphabet\n\nAn alphabet is a list of special signs called letters. Each letter stands for a sound. When you put letters together, you can write words. The letters have a special order, like A, B, C. That order is called alphabetical order. Many languages use the alphabet to write. The alphabet we use comes from a very old alphabet made a long time ago.
Honeyeater\n\nA honeyeater is a bird that eats sweet liquid from flowers. Most honeyeaters live in Australia and nearby islands. They have a special tongue that soaks up the sweet liquid like a sponge. Honeyeaters also eat tiny bugs and fruit. They move quickly from flower to flower and sometimes hang upside down. Many Australian flowers need honeyeaters to help them make seeds.
Scrabble\n\nScrabble is a board game where 2, 3, or 4 people make words with letter tiles. The board has a grid of squares. Each player gets seven tiles with letters on them. Players take turns putting words on the board. The words must connect to other words already on the board. Each letter is worth points. Common letters like E and T are worth 1 point. Rare letters like Q and Z are worth 10 points. Some squares on the board give extra points. The player with the most points at the end wins. People play Scrabble at home, in clubs, and in tournaments all over the world.
Ethiopia\n\nEthiopia is a country in Africa. It is a very old country with a long history. Ethiopia was one of the few places in Africa that was not taken over by other countries for a long time. The country used to be called Abyssinia. Ethiopia is the most crowded country in the world that does not touch the ocean. Many people live there. The country has high mountains and dry lowlands. Some people in Ethiopia are Christian, and some are Muslim. Long ago, there was a big kingdom called Aksum. That kingdom was very powerful and helped spread the Christian religion in Ethiopia. Later, other kings and queens ruled the land. Today, Ethiopia is its own country with its own people and culture.
Ontario\n\nOntario is a part of Canada. It is in the eastern half of Canada. Many people live there, more than in any other part of Canada. The biggest city in Ontario is Toronto, and it is also the capital of Ontario. Ontario has four big lakes along its border with the United States: Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, Lake Huron, and Lake Superior. These lakes are called the Great Lakes. The Ontario flag is red with a British flag in the corner. The bird of Ontario is the loon, and the flower is the trillium, which has three petals and is usually white. Ontario became part of Canada in 1867. The leader of Ontario is called the premier. Most people live in the southern part of Ontario, where the big cities are. In the north, very few people live, and there are no roads or trains. In winter, much of Ontario gets a lot of snow. In summer, the south can get very hot.
Unemployment\n\nUnemployment is when a grown-up does not have a job to go to. They want to work but cannot find a job. This can make them sad because they do not get money to buy food or toys. Some people who have trouble learning or thinking find it even harder to get a job. The government tries to help people find jobs, but it is hard to help everyone.
Extraterrestrial life\n\nExtraterrestrial life is life that is not from Earth. It is also called alien life. Earth is our planet, and we live here. Some people think there might be life on other planets, like Mars. But so far, no one has found any. Scientists have looked for signals from space, but they have not found any yet. In stories and movies, aliens are often shown as looking like people, but some stories have very strange-looking aliens. Some people say they have seen aliens or their spaceships, but there is no good proof for that.
Taiga\n\nThe taiga is a big forest with many trees. It is very cold there in winter and cool in summer. The trees are mostly pines, spruces, and larches. The taiga covers parts of Alaska, Canada, Sweden, Finland, Norway, Russia, and the northern United States. Many animals live in the taiga, like moose, bears, and wolves.
Personal name\n\nA personal name is a special word that tells who you are. It is the name your mom and dad give you when you are born. Most people have two parts to their name: a first name and a last name. Your first name is the one your family calls you. Your last name is the same as your family's name. Every child has the right to have a name.
Geothermal energy\n\nGeothermal energy is heat that comes from inside the Earth. The ground deep down is very hot, even hotter than the sun on your skin. This heat can be used to make electricity or to warm up buildings. In some places, hot water and steam come out of the ground at hot springs and geysers. People can also use pipes buried in the ground to help heat and cool houses. In winter, the heat from the ground warms the house. In summer, the house sends extra heat back into the ground. This kind of energy is called renewable because it never runs out.
East Africa\n\nEast Africa is a part of the big continent called Africa. It is on the eastern side. Some of the very first people lived there a long, long time ago. We know this because scientists found old bones and fossils there.
Foot\n\nA foot is the part of the body at the bottom of your leg that you stand and walk on. Different animals have different kinds of feet. Heavy animals like elephants put their whole foot down, including their heel. Big animals with hooves, like horses, walk on their hooves. Lighter animals, like cats and dogs, walk on their toes. Most heavy animals walk on four legs, but some big birds like ostriches run very fast on two legs. People also walk on two feet.
Algebra\n\nAlgebra is a part of math. It uses letters to stand for numbers we do not know yet. For example, in 2 + x = 5, the letter x is the number we need to find. When we find it, we say we solved the problem. Algebra helps us solve real problems, like figuring out how much something costs or how fast something moves. People who build things, make computers, or work with money use algebra a lot. In algebra, we add, subtract, multiply, and divide numbers and letters. We can also draw pictures called graphs that show how numbers change. Algebra was first used a long time ago by people in Babylon and Greece. The word "algebra" comes from an Arabic book written over a thousand years ago.
Metre\n\nA metre is a way to measure how long something is. It is a little longer than a big step you take. People use metres to measure things like the height of a door or the length of a room. A metre is about as long as three big rulers put together.
Distance\n\nDistance is how far one thing is from another thing. It tells you the space between two things. You can measure distance along any path. If you walk in a circle, you have traveled a distance, even if you end up where you started. The shortest way from one place to another is called displacement.
Amazon River\n\nThe Amazon River is a very big river in South America. It carries more water than any other river in the world. The river starts in the Andes Mountains in Peru and flows east to the Atlantic Ocean. Most of the river is in Brazil. The Amazon is so wide that in some places you cannot see the other side. Many kinds of animals live in and near the river, like fish, birds, and insects. Big ships can travel on the river all the way to the city of Manaus in Brazil. There are no bridges across the whole river because there are not many roads or cities nearby. People use boats to cross the river instead.
Observatory\n\nAn observatory is a special building where people look at the sky. They use big telescopes to see stars, planets, and the moon. Observatories are often built on top of mountains or hills. The air up there is cleaner and clearer. They are also far away from cities, because city lights make it hard to see the stars.
Printing press\n\nA printing press is a machine that makes many copies of the same pages. It is used to print books and newspapers. Long ago, people cut whole pages into wood to print. Then a man named Johannes Gutenberg made a better way. He used metal letters that could be moved around to make any page. This was like a big stamp. Later, machines got faster and used steam power. Now printing presses are run by computers. Because of this, books and magazines cost less to make.
Egyptian language\n\nThe Egyptian language is a very old language that people spoke in Ancient Egypt a long, long time ago. It is one of the oldest languages that people wrote down. The people of Egypt wrote with special pictures called hieroglyphs. Later, the language changed into a new form called Coptic. Today, only a few people still speak Coptic, and they use it in church. For a long time, no one could read the old Egyptian writing. Then in 1799, people found a big stone called the Rosetta Stone. It had the same words in three languages, and that helped people learn how to read the old Egyptian pictures.
Custom\n\nA custom is a way of doing things that many people do for a long time. It is also called a tradition. People from the same country or family often share customs. They do the same things every year, like having a special meal on a holiday. Sometimes people do not know when the custom started. Customs are passed from old people to young people.
Fingerprint\n\nA fingerprint is the mark your finger leaves when you touch something. Your fingers have tiny lines and bumps that make a pattern. No two people have the same fingerprint, not even twins. Police can use fingerprints to find out who touched something. Some doors and phones use a scanner to read your fingerprint and let you in.
Mirror\n\nA mirror is a flat piece of glass that shows your face back to you. When you look into a mirror, you see a reflection of yourself. Light bounces off the mirror and lets you see what is behind you too. Some mirrors are curved and can make things look bigger or smaller. In a mirror, writing looks backwards. Mirrors have a shiny metal layer on the back, often made of aluminum.
Pupa\n\nA pupa is a stage in the life of some insects, like butterflies and moths. After being a little worm called a larva, the insect turns into a pupa. Inside the pupa, the insect changes and grows wings and legs. When it is ready, it comes out as an adult. A butterfly pupa is called a chrysalis. A moth pupa is called a cocoon. You can sometimes find a chrysalis hanging on a leaf or a twig.
Parsley\n\nParsley is a green plant that people put on food. It has a fresh taste and makes food look pretty. You can put it in soups, salads, and sauces. Some people eat parsley to make their breath smell better. It is easy to grow in a garden or inside a house near a window. Parsley needs good dirt, water, and light. When you pick it, new leaves will grow back. It has many good things inside that help your body stay healthy.
Artillery\n\nArtillery is a word for very big guns that armies use. These guns can shoot far away to hit things like buildings or enemy soldiers. The people who shoot the big guns are called gunners. Sometimes another person called a spotter looks for the enemy because the guns shoot farther than the gunners can see. Some artillery can even drop mines on the ground to stop people from walking there.
Leaning Tower of Pisa\n\nThe Leaning Tower of Pisa is a tall building in Pisa, Italy. It is a bell tower, which means it holds bells that ring. The tower is famous because it leans to one side. Long ago, when workers built the second floor, the ground under it was soft, so the tower started to tilt. The tower has 294 steps inside. For many years, people fixed the tower so it would not fall down. Now you can visit it and see it leaning.
Natural disaster\n\nA natural disaster is a very big and bad thing that happens in nature. It can be a flood, a big storm, an earthquake, or a volcano that shoots hot rocks and ash. These things can hurt people and break their houses. Sometimes people do things that make natural disasters happen, like cutting down too many trees. If a big earthquake happens where no one lives, it is not a disaster. But if it happens near many people, it can be very sad and take a long time to fix.
Tank\n\nA tank is a big, strong vehicle that moves on tracks like a bulldozer. It has thick metal armor to keep the people inside safe. Tanks have a big gun on top that can turn around to shoot. They also have smaller guns. Tanks are used by soldiers in wars. They can drive over bumpy ground and through mud because of their tracks. A tank usually has three to five people inside: a driver, a commander, and a gunner. The first tanks were made a long time ago during World War I. Today, tanks are still used by many armies around the world.
Flamenco\n\nFlamenco is a way of dancing and making music. It comes from Spain, a country far away. People sing, clap their hands, and stomp their feet. A man and a woman dance in special clothes. They use a guitar and sometimes click little wooden pieces called castanets. The dance can be fast or slow. Flamenco is famous all over the world.
Panama City\n\nPanama City is a big city and the capital of the country called Panama. Many people live there. Some older people like to move there when they stop working.
Pandemic\n\nA pandemic is when a sickness spreads to many people all over the world. It is a kind of sickness that can jump from one person to another. When a sickness spreads in one town, it is called an outbreak. When it spreads to many countries, it is called a pandemic. Doctors and nurses work hard to help people get better. Countries work together to stop the sickness from spreading more.
Ladder\n\nA ladder is a tool that helps people climb up or down. It has two long side pieces and steps called rungs between them. You put your feet on the rungs and hold the sides with your hands. Some ladders lean against a wall. Others stand by themselves and look like an upside-down V. Fire trucks have ladders that can turn in any direction. Rope ladders are soft and can be folded up small.
Islamic architecture\n\nIslamic architecture is a way of building houses and special buildings called mosques. People who follow Islam make these buildings. They use pretty shapes and patterns on the walls. They also write beautiful letters on the walls and on pots. They do not draw pictures of God. Some of these buildings are very old and look like buildings from Egypt.
Wrasse\n\nA wrasse is a kind of fish that lives in the ocean. Many wrasses are very colorful, with bright blues, greens, and yellows. They are usually small, but some can grow very big. Wrasses have thick lips and can push their mouths forward to catch food. They eat tiny animals like bugs and worms. Some wrasses help other fish by cleaning off little bugs from their skin. These are called cleaner wrasses. A wrasse can change from being a girl fish to a boy fish as it grows up.
Zodiac\n\nThe Zodiac is a group of twelve special star pictures in the sky. Some look like animals, some look like people, and some look like things. A person's Zodiac sign comes from when they are born. In the Chinese Zodiac, each year has a different animal, like a rat, ox, or tiger.
Stork\n\nA stork is a big bird with long legs and a long beak. Storks live near water like ponds and rivers. They walk in the water and catch small animals to eat, like frogs, crabs, and little fish. Some storks fly to warm places in winter and come back in summer. The white stork is the most famous kind. It builds a very big nest on top of houses or tall poles. People used to think storks stayed with one partner forever, but now we know they sometimes change partners. The marabou stork is the biggest stork and has very wide wings. There is an old story that storks bring babies to families, but that is just a make-believe tale.
Carbohydrate\n\nCarbohydrates are a kind of food that gives your body energy to run, jump, and play. They are made of tiny pieces called sugars. Bread, pasta, rice, and potatoes have lots of carbohydrates. When you eat them, your body uses them for energy. If you eat too many, your body turns the extra into fat. You can still be healthy even if you eat very few carbohydrates, like some people who live in very cold places.
Darter\n\nA darter is a bird that lives near water in warm places. It has a very long, thin neck. When it swims, only its head and neck stick out of the water, which looks like a snake. That is why people also call it a snakebird. The darter catches fish by stabbing them with its sharp beak. There are four kinds of darters in the world.
Skiing\n\nSkiing is a fun way to slide over snow. You wear special boots that clip onto long sticks called skis. There are two kinds of skiing. Downhill skiing is when you go down a snowy hill or mountain. Some trails are easy (green), some are medium (blue), and some are hard (black). Cross-country skiing is when you ski on flat snow through forests or towns. In races, skiers go very fast between sticks called gates. If you miss a gate, you are out of the race.
Agra\n\nAgra is a city in India. It is famous for the Taj Mahal, a beautiful white building made of marble. A king built it a long time ago for his wife. Many people visit Agra to see the Taj Mahal and other old buildings. The city has hot summers and cool winters. People there speak Hindi. You can ride in auto rickshaws or cycle rickshaws to get around.
European robin\n\nThe European robin is a small bird that lives in many parts of Europe. It has an orange-red chest and face, olive-brown wings and back, and a white belly. Its legs are brown and its tail is square. It has big black eyes and a small black beak. Robins eat bugs like insects. Some robins fly to warmer places in winter, and some stay. In spring, the male robin's red chest gets a little redder. Male robins are very bossy and do not let other male robins come near. They even fight other birds that get too close. In Britain, the robin is the most loved bird.
Shirt\n\nA shirt is a piece of clothing you wear on the top part of your body. Some shirts have long sleeves that cover your arms. Other shirts have short sleeves that cover only your shoulders. A shirt without sleeves is called sleeveless. Many shirts have buttons down the front. T-shirts are a kind of shirt with short sleeves. People wear shirts every day.
Basra\n\nBasra is a big city in Iraq. It is the third biggest city in that country. Many people live there, about as many as in a very big town. Basra sits near a wide river called the Shatt al-Arab, close to the Persian Gulf. It is the main port of Iraq, so big ships come to bring things from far away. Long ago, Basra was one of the first cities built by people who followed Islam.
History of Asia\n\nThe history of Asia is about the people who lived there long ago. Asia is a very big place with many countries. Long ago, people started living near rivers and built the first cities. They learned to write, count, and make wheels. Some people moved around on horses and lived in the grasslands. They sometimes fought with people in cities. Many big empires grew in Asia, like the Mongol Empire and the Ottoman Empire. Later, trains were built to cross Asia. After big wars, many countries in Asia became free and made their own rules.
Bronze Age\n\nThe Bronze Age was a very long time ago when people learned to make tools from a special kind of metal called bronze. Bronze is made by mixing two other metals together: copper and tin. It is stronger than copper, so people could make better knives, axes, and other tools. Making bronze was hard work, so the people who knew how to do it were very important. People started to trade bronze tools with other groups far away. During the Bronze Age, people also began to write things down. Farming was very important, and people grew food like barley and wheat. They kept animals like sheep, cows, and goats for meat, milk, and cheese. The Bronze Age ended when people learned to make tools from iron, which was easier to find.
Dice\n\nDice are small objects used in games. Most dice are cubes with the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 on the sides. You roll a die with your hand to get a random number. Opposite sides of a cube die always add up to 7. Some games use one die, and some use two or more. There are also dice with more sides, like in Dungeons and Dragons. Some dice have letters or pictures instead of numbers. People use dice in games like Monopoly and Yahtzee.
Luxembourg\n\nLuxembourg is a small country in Europe. It is next to Belgium, Germany, and France. The people there speak Luxembourgish, French, and German. Luxembourg was one of the first countries to join the European Union. In 2020, it became the first country in the world to let everyone ride buses and trains for free. The country has a king, but the people also vote for their leaders. Luxembourg has many old castles and beautiful forests.
Crocodile\n\nA crocodile is a big animal that lives in water and on land. It has a long body, a long snout, sharp teeth, and a strong tail. Crocodiles live in rivers, lakes, and swamps in warm parts of the world like Africa, Asia, Australia, and America. Some crocodiles live in salt water near the ocean. They cannot breathe underwater, so they come up to the surface to get air. Crocodiles can hold their breath for a long time when they are resting. They look like a log floating in the water. When an animal comes to drink, the crocodile jumps out and grabs it with its strong jaws. It pulls the animal underwater to eat it. Baby crocodiles eat bugs, small fish, and frogs. Mother crocodiles lay eggs in a nest near the water and guard them. When the babies hatch, the mother protects them in the river. Crocodiles can be brown, gray, or greenish-brown. They cannot stick out their tongues. Alligators look like crocodiles, but you can see a crocodile's big tooth when its mouth is closed.
Permafrost\n\nPermafrost is ground that stays frozen all year long. It is very cold dirt and rocks that never melt, even in summer. Most permafrost is found near the North and South poles, where it is very cold. Some is also on top of high mountains. When permafrost gets warm and melts, it lets out a gas that can hurt the air around us.
Johannesburg\n\nJohannesburg is the biggest city in South Africa. It is also called Jozi, which means "place of gold" because there is a lot of gold there. The city has a very tall building called the Carlton Centre and a very tall tower called the Hillbrow Tower. There is a zoo in Johannesburg that has two polar bears. Snow almost never falls there. A famous man named Nelson Mandela lived in Johannesburg and died there.
Journey to the West\n\nJourney to the West is a famous story from China. It is about a monkey king and his friends who go on a long trip. They help a monk find special books. The monkey king is very strong and can do magic tricks. This story is very old and many people love to read it.
Computer programming\n\nComputer programming is telling a computer what to do by giving it instructions. These instructions are called programs. A person who writes programs is a computer programmer. Programmers use special languages like Python or C to write instructions. The computer turns these instructions into numbers it can understand. Programmers use things called variables to store numbers or words. They use if-statements to make the computer do different things depending on what is true. They use loops to make the computer repeat something many times. Comments are notes in the program that help people understand the code. Sometimes programmers make mistakes called bugs. Finding and fixing bugs is called debugging.
Migration\n\nMigration is when animals move from one place to another at the same time every year. For example, caribou in the cold north go south in winter and come back in summer. Many birds fly to warm places when it gets cold. Some insects, like locusts, also move. Fish like young salmon leave the river where they were born when they grow a little. Animals migrate to find food or because the weather changes. Birds often fly north and south along special paths. The Arctic tern flies the farthest, all the way from the north pole to the south pole and back each year. Albatrosses fly over the southern oceans. Some animals move up and down mountains with the seasons. Migration helps animals survive and have babies.
Peter Pan\n\nPeter Pan is a make-believe boy who can fly. He never grows up and lives on a magical island called Neverland. He plays all day with his friends, the Lost Boys. His best friend is a tiny fairy named Tinker Bell. Peter Pan fights a bad pirate named Captain Hook. To fly, Peter Pan thinks happy thoughts.
Pronoun\n\nA pronoun is a word that takes the place of a name. Instead of saying "the girl" again and again, you can say "she". Instead of "the ball", you can say "it". Pronouns help us talk without repeating the same words. Some pronouns are I, you, he, she, it, we, and they. When you say "my book", the word "my" is a pronoun that shows the book belongs to you. When you say "I hurt myself", the word "myself" is a pronoun too. Pronouns change a little depending on who is talking and who is being talked about.
Outer space\n\nOuter space is the big empty place above the sky where stars, planets, and the Moon live. It starts very high up, where the air ends. There is no air in space, so astronauts must wear special suits to breathe. Space is very cold and very hot at the same time. People use telescopes to look at stars and planets far away. Some telescopes are in space to see better. It takes a long time to travel in space. We have sent robots to explore other planets.
Continental shelf\n\nA continental shelf is the part of a continent that is under the sea. It is like a shallow ocean near the land. During very cold times, the shelf was dry land. Now the water covers it. The shelf is not very deep, only up to 140 meters. It is full of life because sunlight reaches the bottom and food comes from rivers. Many fish and tiny plants live there. The shelf ends where the ocean floor drops down steeply.
Social sciences\n\nSocial sciences are about learning how people live together. People who study social sciences want to know how families, towns, and countries work. They ask questions like: How do people make rules? How do people trade things? How do people feel? To find answers, they ask many people questions and write down what they learn. Some social sciences are about old things people left behind, like old pots and tools. Others are about money or about how people choose their leaders. Social sciences help us understand each other better.
Rotterdam\n\nRotterdam is a big city in the Netherlands. It is the second biggest city in that country. About 653,000 people live there. Rotterdam has the biggest port in Europe. A port is a place where big ships come to load and unload things. The city sits on a river called the Maas. Much of Rotterdam is built behind big walls called dikes because the land is below sea level. The city got its name from a dam built across the river Rotte a long time ago. During World War Two, many buildings in the center were destroyed. After the war, people built new buildings, so the center looks very modern. There is a tall tower called the Euromast that you can see from far away. The city also has a university called Erasmus University Rotterdam.
Health\n\nHealth is how good your body and mind feel. It means being strong, happy, and able to play with friends. Your body is healthy when you eat good food, drink clean water, and get enough sleep. Running and jumping keep your body fit. Your mind is healthy when you feel happy and can handle sad or worried feelings. It is okay to feel sad sometimes, but if you feel very sad for a long time, you might need help. Washing your hands and going to the doctor for check-ups help keep you from getting sick. Being healthy helps you have fun and learn new things every day.
Economic policy\n\nEconomic policy is the rules a country makes about money. It decides how much tax people pay, how the government spends money, and how businesses work. These rules help keep the country's money safe and fair for everyone.
Rocket engine\n\nA rocket engine is a machine that makes a rocket go up into the sky. It works by pushing hot gas out very fast from the back. The gas comes from burning special fuel. Some rocket engines burn liquid fuel, and some burn solid fuel. Liquid fuel engines are very hard to make because they need pumps and very cold or very hot parts. Solid fuel engines are simpler and cheaper, but they cannot be turned off once they start. Both kinds help rockets fly to space.
Fasting\n\nFasting is when a person chooses not to eat or drink for a while. People do this for different reasons. Some do it for their religion, like in the Bible or the Qur'an. Some do it to show they are upset about something. Others do it to try to lose weight. Fasting can be hard on the body, so it is important to be careful.
Biosphere\n\nThe biosphere is everything alive on Earth. It is all the plants, animals, and tiny living things that live on land, in water, and in the air. The biosphere goes from high up in the sky where birds fly all the way down deep underground where tiny bugs live. It covers the whole Earth, from the cold ice at the poles to the hot places near the middle. People are part of the biosphere too.
Door\n\nA door is a hard, flat thing that you can open and close to go into a room or a building. Doors are in houses, cars, and cages. Some doors turn in a circle, like at a store. Some doors are fake and just look nice on a wall. A garage door rolls up to stay out of the way. A fire door is made of heavy steel to stop fire. A doggie door is a tiny door at the bottom for pets to go through.
Silo\n\nA silo is a tall round building on a farm. It holds special food for cows called silage. Silage is made from green plants like grass or corn that are kept wet. The food stays good all winter. The silo has a pointy top and doors on the side. People put the food in at the top and take it out at the bottom to feed the cows.
Veil\n\nA veil is a soft piece of cloth that covers part or all of a person's face. Many women wear veils in different parts of the world. A bride often wears a veil on her wedding day. Some people wear veils for religious reasons, and others wear them for fun or dancing. A veil is different from a mask because a mask is hard and fits tight, while a veil is soft and loose. A veil can send a message without words. When a woman covers her face with a veil, it can mean she does not want to talk. When she lifts the veil, it can mean she is ready to be seen. Some veils are see-through, which makes them look mysterious.
Octopus\n\nAn octopus is an animal that lives in the ocean. It has eight long arms with little round suckers on them. Its body is very soft, so it can squeeze through tiny holes. An octopus has two big eyes and a hard beak like a parrot. It has three hearts. Octopuses are very smart. They can change color to hide or to show how they feel. When they are scared, they shoot black ink into the water and swim away fast. They eat crabs and small fish. A mother octopus lays many eggs and takes care of them until they hatch. After the babies come out, the mother dies. Octopuses do not live very long.
Khartoum\n\nKhartoum is a big city in Africa. It is the capital of Sudan, which is a country far away. The Blue Nile river and the main Nile river meet right in Khartoum. The name Khartoum means "elephant tusk." It is very hot there, and it is one of the hottest big cities in the world. Most of the year it is very dry, with almost no rain. But in August, a little rain falls. At night, it gets cooler. Many people live in Khartoum, and some of them came from Syria because of war.
Playground\n\nA playground is a place where children go to play. It has fun things like slides, swings, and seesaws. Most playgrounds are outside, but some are inside a building. The slides and swings can be made of metal, wood, or plastic. The ground under them is soft, so if you fall, it does not hurt. It might be rubber, woodchips, or sand. Playing at the playground helps your body get strong and healthy.
Experiment\n\nAn experiment is a test to see if an idea is right. Scientists and engineers do experiments to learn about the world. They try something and watch what happens. For example, they might give one group a new medicine and another group a pretend pill. Then they see if the medicine works. Experiments help us know if something is false, but they cannot prove something is true forever. Some experiments are done in a lab, and some are just in your mind.
Bandage\n\nA bandage is a long strip of cloth or soft material. You put it on a cut or a scrape to stop the blood and keep it clean. Sometimes a bandage has a sticky part that sticks to your skin. It helps the hurt place get better.
Sea urchin\n\nA sea urchin is a small animal that lives in the ocean. It has a round body covered with long, sharp spines. The spines help protect it from other animals that want to eat it. Sea urchins move slowly using many tiny tube feet. They eat plants and small animals that grow on rocks. Some people eat the inside part of sea urchins, which is called roe. Sea otters love to eat sea urchins.
Flamingo\n\nA flamingo is a bird that lives near water like lakes. Flamingos are pink or red because of tiny things they eat in the water. Baby flamingos are gray. They are tall birds with long legs and a curved beak that looks like a banana. Flamingos often stand on one leg. They can fly and live in big groups called flocks. A group of flamingos is also called a flamboyance.
Thermometer\n\nA thermometer is a tool that tells you how hot or cold something is. Some thermometers have a thin glass tube with a red or silver liquid inside. When it gets hot, the liquid moves up the tube. When it gets cold, the liquid moves down. Other thermometers are digital and show numbers on a screen. Doctors use thermometers to check if you have a fever. You put one under your tongue or under your arm. Some thermometers are used in science labs to measure very exact temperatures. Old thermometers had a poison called mercury inside, so now people use safer ones.
Lake Baikal\n\nLake Baikal is a very big lake in Russia. It is the deepest lake in the whole world. The water in Lake Baikal is fresh, not salty. Many kinds of fish and animals live there that you cannot find anywhere else. One special animal is the Baikal seal, which is a small seal that lives only in this lake. The lake is very old, more than 25 million years old. Mountains and forests surround the lake. Many rivers flow into it, but only one river flows out. People like to visit Lake Baikal to see its clear water and the animals that live there.
Fennel\n\nFennel is a plant that people can eat. It has a round white bulb at the bottom, green leaves, and small seeds. The bulb, leaves, and seeds all taste like black licorice. People put dried fennel seeds in food to give it a sweet flavor. Fennel grows in warm places near the sea.
Plate armour\n\nPlate armour is a kind of body covering made from hard metal plates. It covers the whole body like a metal suit. Long ago, knights in Europe wore plate armour to protect themselves in fights. The armour was made of iron or steel. It was very heavy but kept the person safe from swords and arrows. Later, guns were invented that could shoot through the armour, so people stopped wearing it.
Mountaineering\n\nMountaineering is when people climb up mountains. Mountain climbers use their arms and legs to climb. They wear special shoes and use ropes to stay safe. Some people climb mountains for fun. Others do it as a job, like helping people climb or studying mountains. Climbing can be dangerous. People can fall, get too cold, or be covered by snow. To stay safe, climbers work together and bring helmets, ropes, and first aid kits.
Clamp\n\nA clamp is a tool that holds things together very tightly. It stops things from moving or coming apart. People use clamps when they build things out of wood. Doctors also use special clamps to help fix people's bodies.
Santa Claus\n\nSanta Claus is a magical man from stories. He brings toys and gifts to children on Christmas Eve. Santa is a happy, plump man with a white beard. He wears a red suit with white fluffy trim. He lives at the North Pole with his wife Mrs. Claus and many elves. The elves make toys for children. Santa has flying reindeer that pull his sleigh through the sky. He travels all around the world in one night to deliver presents. Children often leave cookies and milk for him. Many people dress up like Santa at Christmas time.
Trumpet\n\nA trumpet is a shiny metal instrument that makes music. You blow into it and buzz your lips to make sound. It has three buttons called valves that you press to change the notes. Trumpets are used in orchestras and jazz music. Some famous trumpet players are Louis Armstrong and Miles Davis. The trumpet has been around for a very long time, even 3000 years ago. It can be hard to play, but it sounds loud and bright.
Puppet\n\nA puppet is a doll that people make move to tell a story. A person called a puppeteer works the puppet. Some puppets have strings that make their arms and legs go up and down. Others are put on a hand like a glove. A sock puppet is a sock on your hand, and your thumb makes the mouth open and close. A finger puppet is a tiny puppet that sits on one finger. A shadow puppet is a cut-out shape held in front of a light, and its shadow shows on a wall. A marionette is a puppet with many strings that hang from above. Some puppets are very simple, and some are hard to use. People all over the world make puppets for shows.
Modern dance\n\nModern dance is a kind of dancing that people do on a stage. It started a long time ago, more than 100 years. Dancers in modern dance do not have to follow hard rules. They can make up their own moves to show how they feel. They often dance without shoes and wear clothes they like. Modern dance is different from ballet because it lets dancers be free and creative.
Speed skating\n\nSpeed skating is a race on ice where people wear skates and go very fast. The skaters go around a big oval track. Two skaters race at the same time, and they both go the same distance. The person who goes the fastest wins. People have been skating on ice for a very long time. Long ago, people in the Netherlands skated on frozen canals to visit other villages. Speed skating became a sport in the Winter Olympics a long time ago. At first, only men could race, but later women could race too. Some skaters race in a group all at once, and that is called short-track speed skating.
Binoculars\n\nBinoculars are a tool that helps you see things far away. They look like two small telescopes stuck together. You hold them up to your eyes and look through them. Things that are far away look bigger and closer. People use binoculars to watch birds, look at stars, or see animals in the woods. Some people use them at shows to see the stage better. Binoculars have special glass inside that makes things look bigger. They were made a long time ago, in the 1600s. Today, some binoculars can even see in the dark.
New Year\n\nNew Year is a time when people say goodbye to the old year and hello to the new one. Many countries celebrate on December 31 and January 1. People have parties, watch fireworks, and stay up late. It is a happy time to start a fresh year.
Adoption\n\nAdoption is when a grown-up takes care of another person's child as if the child were their own. A long time ago, there were no rules about adoption, and sometimes people gave away their child and then wanted them back. Now, adoption is forever. The new parents have all the rights to take care of the child, and the first parents do not have those rights anymore. Some children are adopted because their first parents could not take care of them. Many adopted children grow up happy, but some want to know about their first parents. In some places, people can find out about their adoption when they grow up.
Central processing unit\n\nA central processing unit (CPU) is the brain of a computer. It tells the other parts what to do. The CPU follows a list of instructions called a program. It can do simple things like add numbers or move data. Most CPUs are small chips inside computers. They work very fast, doing billions of things each second. The CPU needs a place to store data it is working on right now, called a register. It also uses memory (RAM) to keep more data. When you turn off the computer, the data in RAM goes away. The CPU talks to other parts using wires called buses. Different CPUs understand different languages called instruction sets. People write programs in languages like C, and a compiler turns them into the CPU's language.
West Bengal\n\nWest Bengal is a state in India, in the eastern part of the country. It is next to the Bay of Bengal, which is a big ocean. Many people live there, more than 100 million. The capital city is Kolkata, which is a very big city. West Bengal has hot summers and cool winters. The Ganges River flows through it. There are hills in the north called the Darjeeling Hills, and a big forest called the Sundarbans where tigers live. People who live there are called Bengalis. They speak Bengali. The state has trains, roads, and an airport. Kolkata has the first underground train in India.
Organic farms\n\nAn organic farm is a place where people grow food without using man-made chemicals. They do not use sprays that can hurt bugs or the ground. Instead, they use old ways like letting animals help make the soil good. They also let ladybugs eat tiny bugs that hurt plants. This keeps the soil healthy and the food safe to eat. Some farms also raise animals with good food and give them room to move. You can buy organic food at stores, and it often tastes very good.
Diwali\n\nDiwali is a big festival in India. It is called the Festival of Lights. People light small oil lamps and put them in their houses and shops. They clean and decorate their homes with flowers and lights. They make colorful patterns on the floor with rice and flowers. People wear new clothes and give sweets and gifts to family and friends. They also pray to gods for good luck and happiness. At night, they light fireworks and enjoy the bright lights.
Motion (disambiguation)\n\nMotion is when something moves from one place to another. When you run, your body is in motion. A ball rolling on the ground is in motion. Even a leaf blowing in the wind is in motion. Everything that moves is in motion.
Castle\n\nA castle is a very old, strong building where powerful people lived long ago. Castles were made of wood, stone, or brick. They had thick walls and sometimes a water ditch called a moat around them. Castles were built to keep the people inside safe and to show how strong the owner was. Kings, queens, and lords lived in castles with their families and servants. Inside, there were big rooms with colorful cloths on the walls and fireplaces to keep warm. Many castles were built on hills or near rivers. Today, most castles are old and broken, but people can visit them to learn about the past.
Essay\n\nAn essay is a piece of writing. It is usually short. A person who writes an essay is called an essayist. An essay can tell what the writer thinks about something. It can also talk about both sides of an idea. Some essays are long, like a whole book. Essays help people share their ideas with others.
Aphid\n\nAphids are very small bugs that eat plants. They can hurt plants more than any other bug. There are many kinds of aphids all over the world. They are very tiny, as small as a grain of rice. Some bugs and spiders like to eat aphids. Ladybugs love to eat them. Aphids can fly far in the air and sometimes travel on plants that people move.
Serbia\n\nSerbia is a country in Europe. The capital city is Belgrade. Many birds live in Serbia, like eagles, owls, and woodpeckers. People in Serbia grow fruits and vegetables, especially raspberries. The most popular sports are football, basketball, and tennis. A famous tennis player from Serbia is Novak Djokovic. The official language is Serbian.
Bodybuilding\n\nBodybuilding is an activity where people make their muscles bigger and stronger. People who do this are called bodybuilders. They lift heavy things and eat special food to help their muscles grow. In contests, bodybuilders show their muscles to judges. The judges pick the person with the best-looking muscles. Bodybuilders do not show how strong they are, only how their muscles look. Some famous bodybuilders are Arnold Schwarzenegger and Charles Atlas.
Mascot\n\nA mascot is a person, animal, or thing that stands for a group. Many schools and sports teams have a mascot. For example, a basketball team might have a lion as its mascot. Some companies also have mascots, like a gecko for a car insurance company. Mascots are used in ads and on things like shirts and toys.
Animation\n\nAnimation is a way to make a movie from many pictures that do not move. The pictures are put one after another and played very fast so they look like they are moving. A person who makes animations is called an animator. One of the first animators was Emile Cohl. He made a short film in 1908 using only his drawings. Today, many people use a computer program called Flash to make animations. Many TV shows for children use simple animation to make them faster and cheaper to draw. Some animations are short, and some are long movies that last more than one hour.
Meadow\n\nA meadow is a big open field full of grass and small plants. You might see cows, sheep, or goats eating the grass there. The plants in a meadow are soft, not like trees with hard wood. Many flowers can grow in a meadow, and butterflies and bees like to visit them.
White Sea\n\nThe White Sea is a big body of water in Russia. It is part of the ocean and sits near the northwest coast of Russia. The sea has four big parts called gulfs. Many rivers pour fresh water into the White Sea. The water is cold and freezes in winter, but big boats called icebreakers help other boats move through the ice. People catch fish like herring and salmon in the White Sea. There is also a canal that connects the White Sea to the Baltic Sea, so boats can travel far away. The White Sea has many small islands, and the biggest group is called the Solovetsky Islands.
Reason\n\nReason is when you think with your brain to figure out what is true or what to do. You use facts and smart thinking, not just how you feel. For example, if you want to know if it is safe to cross the street, you look both ways and think about the cars. That is using reason. People have been thinking about reason for a very long time, since ancient times. Some people wonder if animals or computers can also think this way.
Byzantine architecture\n\nByzantine architecture is a way of building that people used a long time ago in a place called the Byzantine Empire. The empire was very big and lasted for more than a thousand years. Builders in this style liked to use big round roofs called domes. They also used half-domes and special shapes called pendentives to hold the domes up. The domes had windows so light could shine through, making them look like shiny crowns. This style of building was used for churches and other important buildings. It later helped shape how people built in Europe and other places.
Turaco\n\nA turaco is a bird that lives in Africa. It has bright green and red feathers. Turacos have a big crest on their head and a long tail. They eat fruit, leaves, and flowers. Figs are a favorite food. Turacos are not very good at flying, but they can run fast. They live in forests and woodlands. Turacos make loud calls to warn other animals about danger. They build big nests in trees and lay two or three eggs.
Ancient Celtic religion\n\nLong ago, the Celtic people lived in Europe. They believed in many gods and goddesses, like Lugus and Cernunnos. They also thought spirits lived in trees, rivers, and rocks. Their priests were called druids, but we do not know much about them. The Celts held special meetings in forests and at holy places. They gave gifts of gold and silver to the water in lakes and wells. Sometimes they gave animals as gifts to the gods. They had four big celebrations each year for the changing seasons. Later, the Romans came and the Celts started to follow new ideas. Then many Celts became Christians, and the old religion went away. But some stories and beliefs from the Celts are still remembered today.
Soy sauce\n\nSoy sauce is a brown, salty liquid that people put on food. It is made from soy beans, grain, water, and salt. People in China, Japan, and Korea use it a lot when they cook. Some people in other countries use it too. Soy sauce tastes salty and a little bit earthy. It can make food taste better. You should keep soy sauce in the fridge so it stays good.
Paleontology\n\nPaleontology is the study of very old things that lived a long time ago. These old things are called fossils. Fossils can be bones, shells, or even footprints that have turned to stone. Some fossils are from tiny animals you need a microscope to see. Other fossils are from huge dinosaurs. Paleontologists dig up fossils to learn about animals and plants that lived millions of years ago.
Children's literature\n\nChildren's literature is books made for kids. Many famous people wrote these books, like Dr. Seuss and Beatrix Potter. Some children's books teach you not to do bad things, like running away or lying. There are also awards for the best children's books.
Discus throw\n\nThe discus throw is a game where you throw a heavy round plate as far as you can. People did this game a long, long time ago in a place called Ancient Greece. The person who throws the discus the farthest wins. Some old statues show people throwing the discus.
Great Pyramid of Giza\n\nThe Great Pyramid of Giza is a very big stone building in Egypt. It was built a long, long time ago, over 4,500 years. The pyramid was made for a king named Khufu. It took about 20 years to build. Workers, not slaves, built it and got paid. The pyramid was once the tallest building in the world for a very long time. It is made of huge blocks of stone. Inside, there are three rooms. One is called the King's Chamber and another is the Queen's Chamber. The outside was once covered with smooth white stones. Some of those stones are still there at the bottom. The pyramid is part of a group of buildings that includes smaller pyramids and temples.
Introspection\n\nIntrospection is when you look inside your own mind to think about your thoughts and feelings. It is like asking yourself, 'What am I thinking right now?' or 'How do I feel?' Long ago, a wise man named Socrates said that knowing yourself is very important. Some scientists asked people to talk about what they were thinking and feeling. But it is hard to know if what people say is true, because everyone sees things in their own way. Today, people still use introspection to understand themselves better, but scientists also use other ways to study the mind.
Nigeria\n\nNigeria is a country in Africa. It is the country with the most people in all of Africa. The capital city is Abuja, and the biggest city is Lagos. Nigeria has a lot of oil, and many people work on farms. The weather is very hot because Nigeria is close to the middle of the Earth. There are big grasslands and rainforests. Many people in Nigeria play soccer, and the national team is called the Super Eagles. Nigeria has many different kinds of food, like soups and sauces with spices. Some people in Nigeria are Christians, and some are Muslims.
Phrase\n\nA phrase is a group of words that go together. It is not a whole sentence because it does not tell a complete idea. For example, "the big red ball" is a phrase. It tells about a ball but does not say what the ball does. There are different kinds of phrases. A noun phrase talks about a person, place, or thing. An adjective phrase gives more information about a describing word. A verb phrase tells more about an action word. An adverb phrase tells more about a word that describes an action. A prepositional phrase tells about where, when, or how something happens.
Fixed-wing aircraft\n\nA fixed-wing aircraft is a machine that can fly through the air. It is also called an airplane or a plane. It has wings that stay still while the plane moves forward. The wings help the plane lift up off the ground. Some planes have engines, and some do not. Planes without engines are called gliders. People ride in planes to travel between cities and countries. Big cities have airports where large planes land and take off. Riding in a plane is safer than riding in a car. The first person to fly a plane with a motor was Orville Wright in 1903. Planes can carry people and things like food and toys. Some planes are used by the military to protect countries or to take pictures from the sky.
Corrosion\n\nCorrosion is when things break down because of a chemical reaction. It often happens to metal when it gets wet and air touches it. When metal corrodes, it changes and can get weak. Iron corrosion is called rusting. Some metals, like stainless steel, do not corrode easily. People can protect metal by painting it or covering it with another metal.
Herbivore\n\nA herbivore is an animal that only eats plants. Deer, elephants, and horses are herbivores. They eat grass, leaves, and sometimes fruit. Some herbivores eat eggs or other animal food, but most eat only plants. Herbivores have special teeth for grinding grass. They do not have to catch their food like meat-eaters do. Many plants have spines or bad taste to keep herbivores away. There are more herbivores in the world than meat-eaters.
Orangutan\n\nAn orangutan is a big ape with red-brown hair. It lives in the rainforests of Indonesia and Malaysia. Orangutans have very long arms and short legs. They spend most of their time up in the trees. They eat fruit, leaves, bark, and sometimes insects. Baby orangutans ride on their mother's back and stay with her for many years. Orangutans are very smart and look a little like people. There are not many orangutans left because their forest homes are being cut down.
Alaska\n\nAlaska is a state in the United States. It is very big, bigger than any other state, but not many people live there. Alaska is far away from the other states, near Canada and Russia. The biggest city is Anchorage, and the capital is Juneau. Alaska has lots of snow, ice, and glaciers. You can see wild animals like bears, moose, and wolves. Many people visit Alaska to see the pretty mountains and animals. Alaska also has oil and fish, which are important for the people who live there.
Rhythm\n\nRhythm is the way sounds and quiet parts happen in music. It is like a pattern of beats that you can clap or tap. The first beat in a group often feels stronger. Musicians keep a steady beat in their head or watch a conductor to play together. People can practice with a tool called a metronome to help keep the beat. Feeling rhythm is something people are born with. Even your heart has a rhythm when it beats.
Radiation\n\nRadiation is energy that moves through the air or space. The Sun sends radiation to Earth as light and heat. Some radiation, like the light we see, is safe. Other radiation, like X-rays, can be dangerous if you get too much. Too much radiation can make people sick or hurt their skin. Some things, like uranium, give off radiation all the time.
Wisent\n\nA wisent is a big animal that lives in Europe. It is a kind of bison and is the heaviest animal in Europe. It has brown hair and short horns that curve up. The wisent is a little taller and thinner than the American bison. It eats leaves, ferns, and tree bark. A baby wisent is called a calf, and it drinks its mother's milk for many months. Long ago, many wisents lived in the forests of Europe. People hunted them for food and took away their homes. By 1927, only about 50 wisents were left. People started a group to protect them, and now more wisents live in zoos and special parks.
Sundial\n\nA sundial is a tool that tells time using the sun. When the sun shines, it makes a shadow on the sundial. The shadow moves as the sun moves across the sky. People put marks on the sundial to show what time it is when the shadow points there. You can see sundials in gardens or on walls. Long ago, people in Egypt, Greece, and Rome used sundials to know the time.
Heart\n\nYour heart is a muscle inside your chest, about the size of your closed hand. It works all the time, even when you sleep. The heart pumps blood all around your body. Blood carries food and air to every part of you. The heart has four rooms called chambers. Two rooms on the right send blood to your lungs to get fresh air. Two rooms on the left send that fresh blood to the rest of your body. Special doors called valves keep blood from going the wrong way. The heart beats by squeezing and then relaxing. A doctor can listen to your heart with a stethoscope to make sure it is working well.
Asian Games\n\nThe Asian Games are a big sports party where people from many countries in Asia come together to play games. Every four years, athletes run, swim, kick balls, and do many other sports. There are summer games and winter games, just like the Olympics. People cheer for their teams and have fun watching.
Letter\n\nA letter is a mark we use to write. In English, we have 26 letters: A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z. We put letters together to make words. Some letters look big, like A, and some look small, like a. Different languages use different letters. For example, Spanish uses the same letters as English, but Chinese uses pictures instead of letters.
Sauna\n\nA sauna is a small room that is very hot. The heat makes you sweat. Sweating can help you feel calm and healthy. In Finland, almost every house has a sauna. The air in a Finnish sauna is dry, and the temperature can be very high. Some saunas have wet air and are not as hot. You can find saunas at hotels and sports places. In some saunas, people wear swimsuits. In others, they do not. Some saunas are for men only, some for women only, and some for both.
Monopoly (game)\n\nMonopoly is a board game for two to eight players. You move around the board and buy streets and houses. The goal is to be the richest player. When other players run out of money, you win. The board has 40 spaces, including GO, Jail, and Free Parking. You roll dice to move. If you land on a street, you can buy it. Other players must pay you when they land on your street. You can also build houses and hotels. The game teaches counting, money, and making deals. Many different versions of Monopoly exist, like Star Wars Monopoly.
Karachi\n\nKarachi is a big city in Pakistan. It is the largest city in that country. Many, many people live there — more than 17 million. Karachi is near the sea and has big ports where ships come and go. The city has long sandy beaches where people can play. It also has a big airport and trains that go to other cities. Karachi is very hot and dry most of the year. The founder of Pakistan was born and buried in this city.
Jordan River\n\nThe Jordan River is a river in Asia that flows into the Dead Sea. Many people think it is a very special river. The river starts from four smaller rivers that join together. It flows through a big valley and passes a lake called the Sea of Galilee. The water from the Jordan River is used by people for drinking and farming. Because so much water is taken out, the Dead Sea is getting smaller. In the Bible, Jesus was baptized in the Jordan River by John the Baptist.
Boat\n\nA boat is something you ride on water. It is smaller than a big ship. Some boats have white cloths called sails that catch the wind. Some boats use sticks called oars that you push through the water. Some boats have a motor that makes them go. A boat that can go under the water is called a submarine. Long ago, boats were made from wood. Now boats are often made from metal. A very old boat was made from a tree trunk and is called the Pesse Canoe.
Television program\n\nA television program is something you watch on TV. It can be a cartoon, a story, or a show about animals. Different programs come on one after another. Sometimes a person tells you what is coming next. Between programs, there are short ads for toys or food. Those ads are not part of the program.
Cake\n\nA cake is a sweet food that you bake in an oven. People make cakes for special days like birthdays and weddings. To make a cake, you mix wet things like milk and eggs with dry things like sugar and flour. Then you put the mix in a pan and bake it in the oven. The cake gets bigger in the oven because tiny air bubbles inside it grow. Some cakes are made with butter, and some are made with eggs and no butter. You can put frosting, chocolate, or fruit on top of a cake. Birthday cakes often have candles on them. A cake can be tall with layers of cake and frosting in between. Some cakes have fruit on the side.
Soul\n\nA soul is a word people use to talk about the part of a person that feels and lives. Some people believe the soul does not die when the body dies. Many religions have different ideas about the soul. In some religions, the soul goes to heaven or hell after death. In other religions, the soul is born again in a new body. Some people think there is no soul at all. The word 'soul' can also mean deep feeling, like in soul music.
Paint\n\nPaint is a wet, colored liquid that you put on things to make them look pretty or to keep them safe. You can use a brush or a roller to put paint on walls, wood, or metal. Paint comes in many colors. Some paint dries fast, like watercolor, and some takes a long time to dry, like oil paint. Paint can protect wood from rain and sun, and it can stop metal from rusting. People also use paint to make pictures, called paintings. Some paintings are very old and famous.
Pretoria\n\nPretoria is a city in South Africa. It is one of the three capital cities of the country. The other two are Cape Town and Bloemfontein. Pretoria is in a warm valley surrounded by hills. Many people live there, about 1.9 million. They speak different languages like Tswana, Ndebele, Afrikaans, and English. The city was started a long time ago by a man named Marthinus Pretorius. He named it after his father. Pretoria has factories that make things like cars and trains.
Kennedy Space Center\n\nThe Kennedy Space Center is a place in Florida where rockets go up into space. It is run by NASA, a group that studies space. Big rockets like the Saturn V and the Space Shuttle took off from here. People called astronauts ride in the rockets to go to the Moon or to the space station. The center has a very tall building where rockets are put together. There is also a place where visitors can learn about space and see real rockets. The first people to walk on the Moon, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin, started their trip from here.
Alpaca\n\nAn alpaca is a soft, fluffy animal that looks a little like a small llama. Alpacas live in South America and are kept by people for their warm wool. They eat hay and grass, and they like to chew on things. Baby alpacas are born after almost a year, and they can live up to 20 years. There are two kinds of alpacas: huacaya, which has fluffy, curly wool, and suri, which has long, silky wool. People use alpaca wool to make warm clothes like sweaters and hats. Alpacas also help guard other animals like sheep and goats by chasing away foxes.
Commutative property\n\nThe commutative property is a rule about adding and multiplying numbers. It says you can change the order of the numbers and still get the same answer. For example, 2 plus 3 is the same as 3 plus 2. Both equal 5. And 4 times 5 is the same as 5 times 4. Both equal 20. But this rule does not work for taking away or sharing. For instance, 5 take away 2 is not the same as 2 take away 5. So you can only switch numbers when you add or multiply.
Lord's Prayer\n\nThe Lord's Prayer is a special prayer that people in the Christian religion say. It is also called the Our Father. Long ago, Jesus' friends asked him how to pray, and he taught them this prayer. Many people still say it today. Some people have made music for this prayer.
Lithuania\n\nLithuania is a country in Europe. It is next to Latvia, Belarus, Poland, and Russia. The capital city is Vilnius. About 2.8 million people live there. The flag has three colors: yellow for the sun, green for the fields, and red for the blood of people who fought for the country. The people speak Lithuanian. Lithuania is part of the European Union and NATO. The country has forests, lakes, and farms. The biggest lake is Drūkšiai. The highest hill is Aukštojas. Children start school at age 7. They learn reading, writing, and math. Many people watch TV and use the internet for news.
Ancient Greek philosophy\n\nAncient Greek philosophy is a way of thinking about the world that started a long time ago in Greece. It is one of the first times people asked big questions like 'What is good?' and 'How should we live?' Some famous Greek thinkers were Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. Socrates liked to ask many questions to help people learn. Plato wrote stories about Socrates and thought about perfect shapes and ideas. Aristotle studied plants, animals, and how people should act. He taught a famous king named Alexander the Great. Greek philosophy helped shape how people think in many places, like Rome and later in Europe.
Unit of measurement\n\nA unit of measurement is a way to say how big, how heavy, or how long something is. When you measure something, you use numbers and a unit. For example, a ruler has marks for centimeters and inches. A centimeter is a unit for length. A kilogram is a unit for weight. Different places use different units. In the United States, people often use inches, feet, and pounds. In many other countries, people use meters and kilograms. Time is also measured in units like seconds, minutes, and hours.
Braille\n\nBraille is a way of writing that uses little bumps on paper. Blind people touch the bumps with their fingers to read. A man named Louis Braille made this system a long time ago. Each bump is a dot, and groups of dots stand for letters and numbers. The dots are in a small box with two rows of three dots. Different dots are raised to make different letters. People can write Braille with a special tool that pokes dots into paper. Some Braille books use short forms of words to save space and help people read faster. Braille helps blind people read books and write just like everyone else.
Density\n\nDensity is how much stuff is packed into something. If a thing has a lot of stuff in a small space, it has high density. If it has only a little stuff in the same space, it has low density. For example, a rock is denser than a sponge. You can change density by heating or pressing something. When water freezes into ice, it gets bigger and less dense, so ice floats. People also talk about population density, which is how many people live in a place. A city has high population density because many people live close together.
Pangolin\n\nA pangolin is an animal that lives in Africa and Asia. It has hard scales all over its body, like a pine cone. Pangolins eat ants and termites with their long tongues. When they are scared, they curl up into a ball. Their scales are sharp and protect them. Baby pangolins are born with soft scales that get hard after two days. Pangolins walk on their back legs and use their tail to balance. Some people hunt pangolins for their scales and meat, so there are not many left.
Immune system\n\nYour immune system is like a team of helpers inside your body. It fights off germs that can make you sick, like viruses and bacteria. Your skin is the first shield—it keeps most germs out. If a germ gets in through a cut, special cells called phagocytes eat it up. Your body also makes antibodies to remember the germ, so next time it can fight it faster. That is why shots (vaccines) help you stay healthy. Sometimes the immune system gets confused and attacks your own body, which is called an autoimmune disease.
Dance\n\nDance is when people move their bodies to music. You can dance alone or with a group. People dance to feel happy, to tell a story, or just for fun. There are many kinds of dance, like ballet, hip hop, and tap. Some dances are done by one person, some by a couple, and some by a big group. People have been dancing for a very long time, even thousands of years ago. You can learn to dance at a dance school. Dancing is good exercise and helps you stay healthy.
Tapestry\n\nA tapestry is a big piece of art made with threads. People weave the threads together by hand on a special frame. The threads that go up and down are hidden, so you only see the colorful threads that make a picture. Most tapestries are made with wool or cotton. Long ago, kings and rich people used tapestries to cover the cold stone walls of their castles. They could roll them up and take them to another house. Some tapestries were hung in churches on special days. The famous Bayeux tapestry is not really a tapestry, but a decorated cloth made in England.
Mozambique\n\nMozambique is a country in Africa. It is next to the ocean. The capital city is Maputo. Many people live there, about 31 million. The people speak Portuguese. Mozambique was ruled by Portugal for a long time, but it became its own country in 1975. The weather is warm, with a rainy season and a dry season. There are big rivers and lakes. People like to play football. They also make music with drums and a wooden instrument called a marimba. Some people carve wood into statues and masks. The food includes things like cassava, cashew nuts, and chicken with spicy sauce.
Hydrogen\n\nHydrogen is the lightest thing in the whole universe. It is a gas that you cannot see, smell, or taste. Hydrogen is very easy to burn. When it burns with oxygen, it makes water. That is how its name came from a word that means "water-maker." Most of the stars, including our Sun, are made of hydrogen. On Earth, hydrogen is mostly found in water. Every water drop has hydrogen inside it. Hydrogen is also in your body, in food, and in many things around you. People use hydrogen to make rocket fuel and to make electricity in special machines called fuel cells. Hydrogen can be dangerous because it can explode if it gets too hot or if it mixes with air.
Dishwasher\n\nA dishwasher is a machine that cleans dirty plates, cups, and forks. You put the dirty dishes inside, close the door, and push a button. The machine sprays hot water and soap all over the dishes to make them clean. A long time ago, people had to wash dishes by hand with a sponge. The first dishwasher was made of wood and had a handle you turned by hand. Later, a woman named Josephine Cochrane made a better dishwasher to keep her pretty plates from breaking. Now many homes have a dishwasher to help with the cleaning.
Moose\n\nA moose is a very big animal that looks like a deer. It has long legs, a big nose, and dark brown fur. A boy moose is called a bull, a girl moose is called a cow, and a baby moose is called a calf. Moose live in cold places like Canada, Alaska, and northern Europe. They like to be near lakes and forests. Moose eat grass, leaves, and twigs from trees. They are awake during the day and usually live alone. In winter, they sometimes stay in small groups. A mother moose takes care of her baby for one year. Moose can live to be fifteen years old. They are very strong and can run fast. People need to be careful driving cars because moose are hard to see at night.
Creation myth\n\nA creation myth is a story that tells how the world and people began. Many different groups of people have their own creation myths. In one story from the Cherokee people, at first there was only water. A water beetle went down and brought up mud, and the mud grew into the Earth. In another story from the Apache people, a small man called the Creator made light and then made the Earth from a small brown ball. In the Judeo-Christian-Islamic story, a being called God made the universe in six days. Some people believe the world is very old, and others believe it is only a few thousand years old. There are many other kinds of creation myths too. Some say the world came from an egg, or from a god or goddess, or from a man and a woman god. Others say the world was made from the body of a dead god. All these stories try to answer the question of how everything started.
Rattlesnake\n\nA rattlesnake is a kind of snake that lives in dry places in North and South America. It has a special tail with parts that make a loud buzzing sound when it shakes. This sound warns other animals to stay away. Rattlesnakes have a venomous bite that can hurt other animals. They use special pits on their heads to feel heat from other animals, even in the dark. They eat small animals like birds and mice. Baby rattlesnakes are often eaten by birds. Big rattlesnakes have to watch out for kingsnakes, which can eat them.
Primary school\n\nA primary school is a place where children go to learn. It is for kids who are about five to eleven years old. After preschool, children start primary school. They learn to read, write, and do math. They also learn about nature, their body, and how to ride a bike safely. In some countries, children eat a free lunch at school. When they finish primary school, they go to a bigger school called secondary school.
Carriage\n\nA carriage is a kind of vehicle that people used before cars were made. It has four wheels and is pulled by horses. Some carriages are very fancy and used for weddings.
Machine\n\nA machine is something people make to help them do work. Some machines have moving parts, like a bicycle or a clock. Some machines do not have moving parts, like a computer or a telephone. People have used machines for a very long time. A machine can change one kind of energy into another kind. There are six simple machines, like a lever or a wheel. A compound machine is made of two or more simple machines.
Kathmandu\n\nKathmandu is a big city in a country called Nepal. It is the most important city in Nepal, where the country's leaders work. Many people live there, more than eight hundred thousand. Kathmandu has many old temples and palaces that people visit. The weather is warm in summer and cool in winter. Sometimes it rains a lot in summer. The city is high up on a mountain, so the air is cool. People in Kathmandu like to visit the temples and pray. There is also a place where people learn to sit quietly and think.
Lyre\n\nA lyre is a musical instrument that looks a bit like a harp and a guitar. You hold it in one hand and pluck the strings with the other hand. It has two arms and a bar across the top, with strings that go from the bar down to a box that makes the sound. People played the lyre a very long time ago, over 4,500 years ago, in places like Egypt and Greece. They used it to make music for songs, poems, and dancing. The strings are made of different things, and when you pluck them, the sound is soft and pretty.
Sponge (tool)\n\nA sponge is a tool you use for cleaning. It has many tiny holes. When you rub a sponge on a dirty thing, the dirt comes off. Some sponges are made by people. Some sponges come from the sea. Sponges from the sea are found in the Mediterranean and the Caribbean. Dolphins in Australia use sponges to help them find food.
Fahrenheit\n\nFahrenheit is a way to measure how hot or cold something is. It uses a little circle and the letter F. A German man named Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit made it a long time ago. Today, people in the United States still use Fahrenheit to tell the temperature outside. Most other places use a different way called Celsius. Fahrenheit is an old way to measure temperature.
Hubble Space Telescope\n\nThe Hubble Space Telescope is a big camera that floats in space. It takes pictures of stars and planets far, far away. Hubble is as big as a school bus. It moves very fast, 5 miles every second. Hubble can see better than telescopes on the ground because it is above the air. The air makes stars look blurry from Earth. When Hubble first took pictures, they were blurry because its mirror was a little bit wrong. Astronauts went up in a space shuttle to fix it. They put small mirrors inside to make the pictures clear again. Hubble has been fixed five times. Now a new telescope called James Webb takes even better pictures.
Valley of the Kings\n\nThe Valley of the Kings is a place in Egypt where very old kings were buried. It is a valley next to a river called the Nile. Long ago, people dug big holes in the ground to put the kings' bodies inside. The valley is very famous, and people from all over the world go to see it. It almost never rains there, but sometimes a big flood comes and fills the tombs with mud.
Jewel\n\nA jewel is a pretty stone that comes from the ground. Jewels can be many colors like red, blue, green, or clear. They start out as rough rocks, but people cut and polish them to make them shiny and smooth. Jewels are hard and rare, which makes them special. People use jewels to make pretty things like rings and necklaces. Some jewels are called diamonds, rubies, sapphires, and emeralds.
Liberia\n\nLiberia is a small country in West Africa, on the coast of the Atlantic Ocean. It has borders with Sierra Leone, Guinea, and Ivory Coast. The capital city is Monrovia. About 5 million people live in Liberia. Most of the land is covered with rainforest. There are also low mountains and swamps near the coast. The name Liberia means "Land of the Free" in Latin. The country became free on July 26, 1847. Many people speak English there. In the past, two big wars hurt the country. Today, people work on rubber tree plantations and try to protect the rainforest.
Competition\n\nA competition is when people get together to see who is the best at something. The people who take part are called competitors. They try to do better than each other. The winner may get a prize, like a trophy or money. Competitions can be for many things, like sports, music, dancing, or science. Sometimes a referee makes sure everyone follows the rules.
Video camera\n\nA video camera is a tool that takes moving pictures and sound. It can show what is happening right now or save it to watch later. Long ago, video cameras were big and cost a lot of money. Only grown-ups who worked on TV used them. Now video cameras are small and cheap. Many phones have a video camera inside. People use video cameras to make movies, record fun times, and help catch cars that do not pay on some roads.
Milky Way\n\nThe Milky Way is our home in space. It is a huge group of stars, and our Sun is one of them. At night, you can see the Milky Way as a soft, milky band of light across the sky. The Milky Way has a flat part called a disk, a bumpy middle part called a bulge, and a big round part around it called a halo. It is not perfectly flat—it is a little bit twisted. The Milky Way has many, many stars—maybe 400 billion! That is a lot of stars. Our Sun and all the planets, including Earth, are inside the Milky Way. The Milky Way is part of a group of galaxies called the Local Group. It is one of the biggest galaxies in that group. A long time ago, a Greek story said the Milky Way was made from milk that spilled from a goddess.
Tower\n\nA tower is a very tall thing that people build. Towers are different from houses because people do not live inside them. Long ago, castles had towers. Today, towers can be used to send messages through the air, to look far away, or to help hold up a bridge.
The Blue Marble\n\nThe Blue Marble is a picture of the Earth taken from far away in space. It was taken by astronauts on a spaceship going to the Moon. In the picture, the Earth looks like a round blue ball with white swirls. The blue is the water, and the white is the clouds. This picture is very famous and many people have seen it.
Bear\n\nA bear is a big animal with thick fur and a short tail. Bears live in many places around the world, like forests and mountains. They have a big body, short legs, and five claws on each foot that they use for digging and climbing. Bears can stand on their back legs and are good at swimming and climbing trees. Most bears are brown, black, or reddish. They have a very good sense of smell and can see colors. Bears eat plants and meat, like berries, grass, and fish. Some bears sleep all winter, which is called hibernating. Mother bears take care of their babies, called cubs, and teach them how to find food. You might know some bears from stories, like Winnie the Pooh or the Berenstain Bears. There are also teddy bears, which are soft toys that look like bears.
Hyaena\n\nA hyaena is a wild animal that lives in Africa and parts of Asia. It looks a bit like a dog, but it is actually more like a cat. Hyaenas have strong jaws that can crush bones. Their front legs are longer than their back legs, so they walk like a bear. Most hyaenas hunt at night. They are very smart and work together to catch food like zebras and wildebeests. Spotted hyaenas are the bossy ones: the girl hyaenas are in charge, and the boys do what they say. Hyaenas can make a sound that is like laughing.
Eye examination\n\nAn eye examination is a check-up for your eyes. A doctor looks at your eyes to see if you can see clearly. You might look at letters on a big chart. The doctor finds out if you need glasses to help you see better.
Kaaba\n\nThe Kaaba is a very special building in a city called Mecca. It is the holiest place for people who follow Islam. Muslims believe it is the House of God. The Kaaba is a big square building made of blue-gray stone. It is covered with a black cloth that has gold writing on it. Every year, the cloth is changed by many workers. Muslims all over the world face the Kaaba when they pray. Once in their life, many Muslims travel to see the Kaaba. That trip is called a pilgrimage.
Ra\n\nRa is a make-believe sun god from a long time ago in Egypt. People thought he was the most important god. They said he was born every morning in the east and died every night in the west. At night he traveled through a dark place under the ground. Ra looked like a man with the head of a falcon bird. He had a round sun above his head. Sometimes he looked like a beetle or a ram. People called him by many names, like Amun-Ra.
Extended family\n\nAn extended family is a big family that has more people than just a mom, a dad, and kids. It also includes aunts, uncles, and cousins. Sometimes grandparents live with the family too. In an extended family, many people live together or near each other. They help take care of each other.
Diaper\n\nA diaper is a piece of clothing that people wear when they cannot control their pee or poop. Babies wear diapers until they learn to use the toilet. Some older people or sick people also wear diapers. Diapers can be made of cloth that you wash and use again, or they can be made of plastic and thrown away after one use. In some countries, a diaper is called a nappy.
Yellow River\n\nThe Yellow River is a very long river in China. It is the second longest river in that country. The river is so long that it is one of the longest rivers in the whole world. The water from the river flows into the sea. People in China call it the "Mother River" because it helped their country grow. A long time ago, people built homes and farms near the river. The river has a yellow color because it carries lots of dirt and sand.
Vacuum\n\nA vacuum is a place with no air inside. Sound cannot travel in a vacuum because there is no air to carry the sound. Even in outer space, there is a little bit of air, but not much. Machines called vacuum pumps can take most of the air out of a box called a vacuum chamber. Scientists use vacuum chambers for experiments where air would get in the way.
Mollusc\n\nMolluscs are animals that live mostly in the ocean. Some live in fresh water or on land. Many molluscs have a hard shell on their body, but some do not. Octopuses, squid, and snails are all molluscs. Snails and slugs are the most common kind. Molluscs have a soft body and a strong foot that helps them move. They eat by scraping food with a special tongue. Some molluscs can be dangerous. The blue-ringed octopus has a bite that can hurt people. Some snails can make people sick. But most molluscs are safe and fun to look at.
Song\n\nA song is a piece of music with words. People who write songs are called songwriters. Some songs are very old and have been sung for a long time. When two people sing together, it is called a duet. When three people sing together, it is called a trio. Sometimes people change the words of a song to make it funny. That is called a parody. A song without words is called an instrumental.
Weasel\n\nA weasel is a small animal with a long, skinny body and short legs. It has brown or red fur on top and white fur on its belly. Its tail is short. Weasels live in many places around the world, but not in Antarctica or Australia. They are very good at hunting and can squeeze into small holes to catch rabbits. Even though a weasel looks a little like a cat, it is actually more like a dog.
Crayfish\n\nA crayfish is a small animal that lives in water. It looks like a tiny lobster and has a hard shell. Crayfish live in rivers, streams, ponds, and swamps. They have ten legs and two claws. Some crayfish dig holes in the ground to find water. They eat plants, bugs, worms, and small fish. Crayfish are most active at night. People sometimes keep them as pets in a fish tank. You can also call them crawfish.
Sense of smell\n\nYour sense of smell helps you notice things in the air. It starts in your nose. When you breathe in, tiny bits of smell go into your nose. Special cells inside your nose catch these bits and send messages to your brain. Your brain figures out what the smell is. Smell helps you enjoy food. When you eat, the smell of the food goes up your nose and helps you taste it. That is why food tastes plain when your nose is stuffy. Smell can also keep you safe. It warns you about smoke, gas, or bad food. Some smells bring back memories, like the smell of cookies or flowers. Different people smell things in different ways. Some people smell very well, and others do not. Your sense of smell can change as you get older or when you are sick. Animals use smell too. Dogs have a very strong sense of smell. They can find people or food by following smells. Insects use their feelers to smell. Ants leave smell trails for other ants to follow. Fish can smell underwater. Smell is one of the five main senses.
Peasant\n\nA peasant is a person who worked on a farm for other people and did not have much money. They wore rough clothes and lived in small houses. Most peasants could not read or write. They worked all the time, except sometimes on Sundays and after the harvest. Men, women, and children all helped with the farm work. Women also cooked, cleaned, made clothes, and took care of children.
Point (geometry)\n\nA point is a tiny spot in space. It has no size, but it has a place. We draw a point as a small dot or a little cross 'X'. Points are named with big letters like A, B, or C. Two points can make a line between them. Points are the building blocks of shapes.
States of matter\n\nEverything around you is made of stuff called matter. Matter can be in different forms called states. The four main states are solid, liquid, gas, and plasma. A solid keeps its own shape, like a rock or a toy. A liquid flows and takes the shape of its container, like water in a cup. A gas spreads out to fill any space, like the air you breathe. Plasma is like a gas but very hot, and it can carry electricity. Lightning is plasma. Stars, including our Sun, are made of plasma. You can change matter from one state to another by heating it up or cooling it down. When ice (a solid) gets warm, it melts into water (a liquid). When water gets very hot, it turns into steam (a gas). When steam cools, it turns back into water. That is called condensation.
Java\n\nJava is a big island in Indonesia. It is one of the Sunda Islands. Many people live there, more than on any other island in the world. The capital city of Indonesia, Jakarta, is on Java. The island has tall mountains that are volcanoes. The ground is good for growing food because of the volcanoes. Most people on Java speak Javanese and follow the religion of Islam.
Parliament\n\nA parliament is a group of people who talk and make rules for a country. The word 'parliament' comes from a French word that means 'a talk'. In a parliament, people called members meet to decide new laws. The leader of the parliament is called the Prime Minister. The parliament can ask the Prime Minister to leave if they think he is not doing a good job. Some parliaments have two parts: one that makes the laws and one that checks the laws. The oldest parliament in the world is in Iceland, and it started a very long time ago.
Mahjong\n\nMahjong is a game with special tiles that people play on a square table. It was made in China. Four people play together. Each player sits on one side of the table, and they are called by the direction they face: East, South, West, or North. The game is about skill and luck. There is also a one-player version called Mahjong Solitaire. In that game, you take away matching tiles from a big pile shaped like a pyramid. You win when you take away all the tiles.
Alchemy\n\nAlchemy is a very old kind of science. People called alchemists tried to change plain metals like lead into gold. They also looked for a special stone that could make sick people better. Alchemists thought that magic and stars were connected to metals. Later, scientists learned to study things by doing experiments. Now we call that science chemistry.
Asteroid\n\nAn asteroid is a small rock that goes around the Sun. It is like a tiny planet but much smaller. Some asteroids are as small as a car, and some are very big. Most asteroids live in a big ring between Mars and Jupiter. They are leftover pieces from when the Solar System was made. Some asteroids are made of metal, some are made of stone, and some are made of carbon. Asteroids do not make their own light. They look like little stars in the sky, but they move around the Sun. A few asteroids have their own tiny moon. Sometimes an asteroid comes close to Earth. Long ago, a big asteroid may have hit Earth and killed the dinosaurs. In 2025, scientists found special stuff on an asteroid called Bennu, including the building blocks of life.
Gulf of Guinea\n\nThe Gulf of Guinea is a big part of the ocean near West Africa. It is warm and sits where the middle line of the Earth meets another line. Many rivers, like the Niger and the Volta, pour water into it. There are islands in the gulf, like Bioko and So Tom and Prncipe. Some islands have volcanoes. People live on some of these islands.
Sentence\n\nA sentence is a group of words that tell you something. It is a whole idea. A sentence has a naming part and a doing part. For example, "The dog runs." The first word of a sentence starts with a big letter. At the end, there is a dot, a question mark, or an exclamation mark. Some sentences tell you something, some ask a question, and some show strong feeling.
Pipeline\n\nA pipeline is a very long tube made of metal. It carries water, gas, or oil from one place to another far away. Some pipelines carry mud mixed with rocks. Building a pipeline costs a lot of money, but using it is cheap. Big sports places have pipelines that bring beer from a big tank to the bars.
Mumbai\n\nMumbai is a big city in India, next to the ocean. It is the biggest city in India and one of the biggest in the world. Many people live there, more than 13 million. Mumbai is where many rich people live and where big companies have their offices. It is also where Bollywood movies are made. The city has trains and buses to help people get around. Long ago, Mumbai was made of seven small islands where fishermen lived. Later, people from other countries came and built a big trading town. Today, Mumbai is a busy place with lots of shops, buildings, and people.
Equilibrium\n\nEquilibrium is when everything is balanced and nothing changes. Imagine a seesaw with two kids sitting on it. If both kids weigh the same, the seesaw stays still. That is like equilibrium. In science, equilibrium can happen with chemicals. When chemicals mix and finish changing, they stop moving around. The amount of each chemical stays the same. Sometimes a reaction can go both ways, like a door that swings forward and backward. If you push the door harder on one side, it swings more that way. Scientists use rules to guess which way the door will swing.
Go (board game)\n\nGo is a board game for two people. Players take turns putting black or white stones on a board with lines. The board has 19 lines going one way and 19 lines going the other way. The player with black stones goes first. The goal is to surround more empty spaces than the other player. If a stone has no empty space next to it, it is taken off the board. The game ends when both players say they are done. Go is very old and was first played in China a long time ago. Many people play it in Japan, Korea, and China. You can also play Go on a computer or at a club.
Imam\n\nAn imam is a leader in the Muslim religion. The imam leads prayers at a special building called a mosque. People in the community can ask the imam questions about their religion. In some groups, the imam is the most important leader of all the people who follow that faith.
Cuneiform\n\nCuneiform is a very old way of writing. People long ago made marks that look like little wedges on soft clay. They used a special stick to press the marks into the clay. Then they let the clay dry in the sun to make it hard. This writing was used in a place called Sumer a very long time ago. At first, the marks were pictures of things. Later, the pictures got simpler. People used cuneiform to write about their lives, their stories, and their rules. After many years, people stopped using cuneiform and forgot how to read it. Then, not too long ago, smart people figured out how to read it again.
Choir (music)\n\nA choir is a group of people who sing together. They practice with a leader and sing at concerts or in church. Some choirs are for grown-ups who get paid, and some are for anyone who wants to join. The singers are split into groups by how high or low their voice is. The highest voice is called soprano, then alto, then tenor, and the lowest is bass. Children's choirs often sing all the same notes, but older kids can sing different parts. The word "choir" can also mean the part of a church where the singers sit, between the main room and the altar. Some choirs are very famous and sing for many people.
Warehouse\n\nA warehouse is a big building where things are kept. It is like a giant storage room. Trucks bring boxes and goods to the warehouse. The boxes are stacked high on shelves. Workers use special machines called forklifts to move heavy boxes around. Warehouses are often in places where many trucks and trains come and go.
Literature\n\nLiterature is stories and poems made with words. Some are written in books, and some are told by talking. There are many kinds of literature, like poems, plays, and novels. Long ago, people told very long stories about heroes and adventures. Those are called epic poems. Some famous ones are the Iliad and the Odyssey. People still read and enjoy literature today.
Attention\n\nAttention is when you look at something and think about it. It is like pointing your eyes and your mind at one thing at a time. When you pay attention, you can learn new things and play games better.
Peccary\n\nA peccary is an animal that looks like a pig. It lives in Central and South America. Peccaries have a strong smell and can tell each other apart by that smell. They live in groups called squadrons, with six to nine animals in each group. Peccaries eat roots, bugs, and many other foods. Some people keep them as pets or raise them for food.
Hummingbird\n\nA hummingbird is a very small bird. It can fly in one place without moving, like a tiny helicopter. Its wings move so fast they make a humming sound. Hummingbirds can also fly backward, which most birds cannot do. They drink sweet water from flowers called nectar. They like red flowers best. When they drink, their head gets covered in yellow dust called pollen. This helps flowers make new seeds. Hummingbirds eat tiny bugs and spiders too. They sit still most of the day to rest and digest their food.
Airship\n\nAn airship is a big thing that floats in the sky like a balloon. It stays up because it is filled with a special gas that is lighter than air. An airship has an engine to move and a way to steer where it goes. A balloon does not have an engine or a way to steer. There are three kinds of airships. Blimps are one kind. They were used long ago to watch for submarines in the ocean. Now blimps are used for advertising and to look down at sports games. The most famous airship was called the "Hindenburg." It was very big and could carry many people. One day, when it was landing, it caught fire. The fire hurt many people.
Quinoa\n\nQuinoa is a small seed that people eat like rice. It is not a real grain, but it comes from a plant that is like spinach and beets. Quinoa is very healthy and has lots of good stuff for your body. Some people call it a superfood. You can cook quinoa and eat it for breakfast, lunch, or dinner. It tastes a little bit like nuts.
Wall\n\nA wall is a flat, tall part of a building that goes straight up. Walls hold up the roof and keep the inside rooms apart. They also keep the weather and bad things outside. Most walls are made of stone or brick. Some walls are inside a house and just make rooms. Other walls are outside and protect the whole building. Long ago, cities had big walls all around them to keep people safe. Today, most of those walls are gone.
Law\n\nLaw is a set of rules that tell people how to behave. The rules help keep everyone safe and peaceful. If someone breaks a law, they might have to pay money or go to jail. Long ago, kings wrote the rules. Today, people vote for leaders who make the rules. Police officers make sure people follow the law. Lawyers are people who know a lot about the law and help others in court. Judges decide if someone broke a law. Some laws come from religion, like the Ten Commandments. Laws can be changed if people think they are not fair.
Bandung\n\nBandung is a big city in Indonesia. It is the capital of a place called West Java. Many people live there, more than two million. Bandung is called the "City of Flowers" because lots of pretty flowers and trees grow there. A long time ago, many countries had a big meeting in Bandung to talk about being free. The city is also known for its nice views.
Finance\n\nFinance is about money. It is how people, businesses, and groups make and use money. Some people save money in a bank. A bank takes money from people who save and lends it to people who need money. Businesses use money to make things and sell them. They try to make more money than they spend. People also use money for things they need and want. Finance helps everyone decide how to use money wisely.
Scallop\n\nA scallop is a sea animal with a hard shell that looks like a fan. It lives in the ocean all over the world. The shell has two parts that open and close. Scallops can swim by clapping their shells together fast. This helps them get away from animals that want to eat them, like starfish. Scallops have many tiny eyes around the edge of their shell. These eyes can see light and moving things. Most scallops eat tiny plants and animals from the water. People like to eat scallops. The white part is the muscle that helps them swim. The orange or white part is the roe. Scallops can be cooked in butter or fried. Some scallops live a short time, and some can live for 20 years or more.
Drilling\n\nDrilling is making a hole in something hard. People drill into rock, dirt, metal, and wood. They use special tools to make the hole. Long ago, people used sticks and stones to drill. Later, they made a tool called a bow drill. It had a rope around a stick to make drilling easier. Today, drilling helps build houses, get oil from the ground, and make things in factories.
Square\n\nA square is a shape with four sides that are all the same length. It has four corners, and each corner makes a straight angle like the corner of a book. A square looks the same when you turn it around. You can see squares on a checkerboard or on a window. A square is also the flat side of a cube.
Onion\n\nAn onion is a plant that people eat as a vegetable. It has a round bulb that grows under the ground. Onions have a strong taste and a very strong smell. When you cut an onion, it can make your eyes sting and water. That happens because tiny bits from the onion float up to your eyes. You can put the onion in cold water or wear goggles to stop the sting. People have been eating onions for a very long time, maybe since Ancient Egypt. You can eat onions raw, cooked, or fried. They are used in many foods around the world.
Millipede\n\nA millipede is a very long bug with many legs. Its body is made of many parts, and each part has two pairs of legs. Millipedes live under rocks, leaves, and in dark, wet places in forests. They eat old leaves and dead plants. When scared, they curl up into a tight circle to protect themselves. Some millipedes can spray a bad-smelling liquid to keep enemies away. Millipedes do not bite people, but their spray can hurt your skin or eyes. They are slow and gentle creatures.
Denver\n\nDenver is a big city in the middle of the United States. It is the capital of the state of Colorado. Denver sits right next to the Rocky Mountains, which are very tall and rocky. The city is called the "Mile High City" because it is one mile above the ground. That is very high up! The top of the big government building in Denver is covered in shiny gold. Denver has many sports teams. People there love to watch football, basketball, baseball, hockey, and soccer.
Nobel Prize\n\nThe Nobel Prize is a big award given every year to people who do great things. It was started by a man named Alfred Nobel a long time ago. The prizes are for science, books, medicine, and helping the world be peaceful. People who get a Nobel Prize are called Nobel laureates. Each winner gets a gold medal, a paper, and some money. The prizes are given out in a city called Stockholm on December 10 every year.
Holiday\n\nA holiday is a special day when people do not go to work or school. Many holidays happen every year. Some holidays are for fun, and some are for remembering important things. People often spend holidays with their family and friends. They might eat good food, play games, or give presents. Some holidays come from old stories about gods or saints. In some places, the word holiday also means a trip away from home.
Kuwait City\n\nKuwait City is a big city by the water. It is the capital of Kuwait, which means it is the most important city in that country. Many people live there. The city has very hot summers and not much rain. Sometimes dust storms blow through. A long time ago, some soldiers came and broke many buildings. Now the city is fixed and people live and work there again.
Metamorphosis\n\nMetamorphosis is how some animals change their bodies as they grow up. A caterpillar turns into a butterfly. A tadpole turns into a frog. First, the animal is a baby that looks very different. Then it changes into a grown-up. Some insects start as eggs, then become larvae that look like worms, then pupae that rest, and finally adults with wings. Other insects just grow bigger and get wings later. Frogs start as eggs in water, then hatch into tadpoles with tails, and later grow legs and lose their tails to become frogs.
Particle\n\nA particle is a very tiny piece of stuff. Everything in the whole world is made of particles. Some particles are so small you cannot see them, even with a strong magnifying glass. Atoms are tiny particles. Inside atoms there are even smaller particles called protons, neutrons, and electrons. Protons and neutrons are in the middle of the atom. Electrons go around the outside. Protons and neutrons are made of even smaller things called quarks. There are six kinds of quarks. Some particles are bigger than atoms, like dust or powder. You can see dust floating in the air when the sun shines in.
Musical genre\n\nA musical genre is a way to talk about different kinds of music. Some music is fast and loud, like rock. Some music is slow and soft, like lullabies. There is also music for dancing, music for church, and music that tells a story. People like different genres, and that is okay.
Heredity\n\nHeredity is how parents pass things to their children. You get your hair color, eye color, and how tall you will be from your mom and dad. That is why you might look like your family. Some things are born in you, like the shape of your nose or the color of your skin. Scientists study heredity by looking at families and twins.
Paper\n\nPaper is a thin, flat material that people use to write on. It is made from tiny wood fibers that are pressed together. You can write on paper with a pencil or a pen. Books, magazines, and newspapers are made of paper. Paper can also soak up water, so people use it to clean things. Some paper is used for money, and some is used to wrap presents. There are many kinds of paper, like copy paper and craft paper. Paper can be made from old paper too; that is called recycling.
Cooling tower\n\nA cooling tower is a very tall building that helps machines stay cool. It looks like a big chimney with a wide top. Inside, water or air takes away the heat from the machines. You can see cooling towers at power plants that make electricity. They are the tallest part of the plant and let out white steam that is not dangerous.
Shrew\n\nA shrew is a very small animal that looks a bit like a mouse, but it is not a mouse. Shrews have long noses and sharp teeth. They live almost everywhere in the world, except in Australia, New Guinea, and New Zealand. Most shrews are no bigger than a mouse. The smallest shrew is the Etruscan shrew, which is only as long as your finger and very light. Shrews live on the ground and look for seeds, bugs, and worms to eat. They have small eyes and cannot see well, but they have good ears and a good nose. Shrews are very active and eat a lot—almost all their own weight in food every day. They do not sleep through winter, but they can get very small and slow down. Shrews are very bossy about their home and do not like other shrews nearby.
Recreation\n\nRecreation is time when you rest your body and mind and have fun. There are many ways to have fun, like reading a book, playing music, watching a movie, gardening, playing sports, or going on a trip. Parks and beaches are good places for fun. Some people travel to new places just to have fun there.
Oboe\n\nAn oboe is a musical instrument that you blow into to make sounds. It is long and thin, and it has a special part called a reed at the top. The reed is made of two thin pieces that shake together when you blow. This makes the sound. The oboe looks a little like a clarinet, but it sounds different. It has four parts: the bell, the lower joint, the upper joint, and the reed. A person who plays the oboe is called an oboist. You can see oboes in orchestras, where two to four people play them. One of them might also play a bigger oboe called the cor anglais. Before a concert, the main oboist plays a note called A for everyone else to tune their instruments.
Exploration\n\nExploration is when people go to new places to learn about them. People explore even when they have everything they need. Long ago, explorers sailed big ships to find new lands. They discovered new people and animals. Some explorers went to space. People also explore ideas and art. Exploring helps us learn new things.
Soft drink\n\nA soft drink is a drink that has bubbles in it. People also call it soda or pop. It is made with water, sugar, and flavor. The bubbles come from a gas that is added to the drink. Some soft drinks taste like lemon, orange, or cola. Many children like soft drinks, but they have a lot of sugar and are not good for your body.
Chimpanzee\n\nA chimpanzee is a kind of ape that lives in Africa. It is very smart and looks a lot like a person. Chimpanzees have long arms and no tail. They are covered in dark hair. Their hands and feet look like human hands and feet. Chimpanzees live in groups with many other chimps. They eat fruits, leaves, and sometimes small animals like monkeys. They use sticks and rocks as tools to get food. Chimpanzees can be friendly, but they can also be mean and fight each other. Baby chimps stay with their mothers for many years. Chimpanzees are in danger because people cut down their forests and hunt them.
Landfill\n\nA landfill is a place where trash is put. The trash is buried in the ground. First, people take out things that can be used again. Landfills smell bad and look ugly, so they are far away from houses. The trash is crushed into tiny pieces and then covered with dirt. When trash is buried without air, it makes a gas that can be used to make power.
Publishing\n\nPublishing is when people make books, newspapers, or other things for everyone to read. A publisher is a person or company that makes these things. Sometimes the writer gets money from the publisher, and sometimes the writer pays the publisher. Long ago, publishing was only for paper books and newspapers. Now, people can also publish on the internet. A thing that is published is called a publication. Publications can be books, magazines, or things you read on a computer.
Solar wind\n\nThe solar wind is a stream of tiny bits that come from the Sun. These bits are very small and move very fast. They can travel all the way across our solar system. The solar wind is dangerous for astronauts and spaceships. Earth's magnetic field catches most of the solar wind. This makes the pretty lights in the sky called the Northern Lights and Southern Lights. Sometimes the solar wind gets very strong and causes a solar storm. A big solar storm can make electricity go out on Earth. The solar wind also makes the tail of a comet. When a comet gets close to the Sun, some of its ice turns into gas. The solar wind blows that gas and dust away from the Sun, so the comet's tail always points away from the Sun.
Grimms' Fairy Tales\n\nGrimms' Fairy Tales is a big book of stories. Two brothers named Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm wrote it a long time ago. The book has many famous stories like Snow White, Hansel and Gretel, and Rumpelstiltskin. The stories have kings, queens, witches, and talking animals. Some stories are scary, but the good people always win in the end. Many children love to hear these tales before bed.
Mammal\n\nA mammal is an animal that has fur or hair on its body. Most mammals give birth to live babies, not eggs. All mammal mothers make milk for their babies to drink. Mammals take care of their babies for a long time. Mammals live in many places: on land, in water, and in the air. Some mammals, like bats, can fly. Some mammals, like whales and dolphins, live in the ocean. Many mammals have four legs and a tail. Mammals can be very small, like a mouse, or very big, like an elephant. Mammals are warm-blooded, which means their body stays the same temperature even when it is cold outside.
Botswana\n\nBotswana is a country in Africa. It is in the southern part of Africa. The capital city is Gaborone. Botswana is very dry and has a big desert called the Kalahari Desert. There is also a special place called the Okavango Delta where water and animals are found. People from Botswana are called Batswana. They speak two languages: Setswana and English. Botswana has a lot of diamonds, which are sparkly stones used in jewelry. Many people visit Botswana to see wild animals like elephants and lions. The money in Botswana is called the pula, which means rain.
Harp\n\nA harp is a musical instrument. It is big and shaped like a triangle. The harp has many strings. You pluck the strings with your fingers to make sounds. Each string makes a different note. The strings are tied to a wooden frame. The frame must be very strong so the strings do not break it. Some harps are small and can be held. Other harps are very tall and stand on the floor. People play harps in orchestras. Some people draw angels playing harps in Heaven.
Prejudice\n\nPrejudice is when someone decides they do not like another person before they even know them. They might not like someone because of the color of their skin, or because of their religion, or where they come from. This is not fair. It is important to keep an open mind and treat everyone kindly, just like a judge in a court who must be fair to everyone.
Food\n\nFood is what people, animals, and plants eat to live. It gives us energy to run, play, and grow. Food comes from animals and plants. It has things like protein, fat, and vitamins that keep us healthy. People get food from farms or gardens. Some food is cooked at home in a kitchen. People use pots and pans to cook. Food can also be bought at a store or restaurant. Different countries have different kinds of food. Eating too much or too little food can make people sick. Some people do not eat meat because of their beliefs.
Equestrianism\n\nEquestrianism is the sport of riding horses. People ride horses in many different contests. Some riders jump over fences on horses. Some riders make horses walk and trot in pretty patterns. Some riders race horses very fast. Other riders ride horses just for fun on trails in the woods. Horses that do jumping are often big and strong. Riders wear special clothes like tight pants and a hat. Riding a horse takes a lot of practice.
Basketball\n\nBasketball is a game where two teams try to throw a ball through a hoop. Each team has five players on the court. The hoop is high up on a backboard. Players bounce the ball, pass it to friends, and shoot it at the hoop. A basket is worth two points, or three points if shot from far away. The team with more points at the end wins. The game was invented by James Naismith in 1891. He used a peach basket as the first hoop. Now basketball is played all over the world.
Sea cucumber\n\nA sea cucumber is an animal that lives on the floor of the ocean. It has a long, soft body and leathery skin. Sea cucumbers eat tiny bits of food they find on the ocean floor. They can make their body soft to squeeze through small spaces, then hard again to stay safe. Some sea cucumbers shoot sticky threads to protect themselves from animals that want to eat them. People in China eat sea cucumbers as food.
Mimosa\n\nMimosa is a kind of plant. There are many types of mimosa, and they grow in warm places. One special mimosa is called the shy plant. When you touch its leaves, they fold up fast. It does this to protect itself. Mimosa has round, fluffy flowers that are made of many tiny flowers together. Some mimosa plants have roots that make a special chemical to keep animals from eating them.
Lyrebird\n\nA lyrebird is a bird that lives on the ground in Australia. It lives in forests, especially rainforests, in the eastern part of Australia. Lyrebirds are very good at copying sounds they hear. They can copy other birds, car alarms, camera clicks, and even chainsaws. The male lyrebird sings and shows off to find a mate. The female builds a messy nest low to the ground and lays one egg. She takes care of the egg and the baby bird all by herself. Lyrebirds can live for a very long time, up to thirty years.
Zombie\n\nA zombie is a made-up monster that looks like a dead person who can walk again. People tell stories about zombies from a place called Haiti. In those stories, a zombie does not have its own thoughts and does what a magic person tells it to do. In movies and books, zombies walk slowly, have rotten skin, and try to eat people's brains. They are not real, but many people like to watch scary movies about them.
Samurai\n\nA samurai was a warrior from Japan, a long time ago. Samurai were very good at fighting and used swords. They believed their swords held their soul. Samurai had to be brave and loyal to their leader. If a samurai lost honor, they would hurt themselves to show they were sorry. Some samurai women also learned to fight with long sticks and short knives to protect their homes. Today, there are no more samurai, but people still remember them.
Arch\n\nAn arch is a curved opening in a building. It can be round like part of a circle or pointy like two circles touching. Arches are used in buildings made of small stones or bricks. The top stone, called the keystone, holds all the other stones up. Arches can be over doors and windows. Many bridges are arch bridges. A row of arches is called an arcade. Arches can also be found in nature, like in cliffs where wind and water wear away the rock.
Gulf of Carpentaria\n\nThe Gulf of Carpentaria is a big, shallow sea in northern Australia. It is surrounded by land on three sides. The water is not very deep, only about as deep as a tall tree. A long time ago, when the earth was colder, this place was dry land. The land around the gulf is flat and low. The weather is hot and wet for half the year, and dry for the other half. During the wet season, many places get flooded. Sometimes big storms called cyclones start here. In the morning, you can see a special long cloud called the Morning Glory. The first person from far away to see this gulf was a Dutch explorer named Willem Janszoon.
Ishmael\n\nIshmael was a boy from a very old story. His father was Abraham and his mother was Hagar. When Ishmael was a baby, he and his mother had to leave home. They walked in the desert with only a little water. When the water was gone, Ishmael got very thirsty. An angel showed Hagar a well, and Ishmael drank and got better. Ishmael grew up and had twelve sons and one daughter. After Abraham died, Ishmael helped his brother Isaac bury him.
Dental fillings\n\nA dental filling is something a dentist puts in your tooth to fix a hole. First, the dentist takes out the bad part of the tooth with a special tool. Then, they fill the hole with a special material to make the tooth strong again. This helps your tooth feel better and stay healthy.
Vertebrate\n\nA vertebrate is an animal that has a backbone inside its body. The backbone is made of many small bones called vertebrae. Birds, fish, frogs, snakes, and mammals like dogs and people are all vertebrates. Animals without a backbone, like bugs and worms, are called invertebrates. Vertebrates live almost everywhere on Earth. Some are very big, like elephants and whales. They have a special way to stay healthy and fight germs.
Pizza\n\nPizza is a food that comes from Italy. It is made with a flat piece of bread called a crust. On top of the crust, there is sauce, often made from tomatoes. Then cheese and other toppings are added. Some common toppings are cheese, sausage, pepperoni, vegetables, and herbs. Pizza is cooked in a very hot oven. People all over the world like to eat pizza. You can buy pizza at a store or make it at home. Some pizza places will bring it to your door.
Celsius\n\nCelsius is a way to measure how hot or cold something is. Most countries use Celsius to tell the temperature. Water freezes and turns into ice at 0 degrees Celsius. Water boils and turns into steam at 100 degrees Celsius. A man named Anders Celsius made this scale a long time ago. He was a scientist who studied the sky.
Daikon\n\nDaikon is a white vegetable that grows in the ground. It looks like a big, long carrot but is white. People eat it raw or cooked. It tastes a little spicy but not too strong. Daikon is a kind of radish. You can find it in salads or soups.
Movie theatre\n\nA movie theatre is a big room where people go to watch movies on a giant screen. You sit in a comfy chair and look at the front wall. The movie is shown by a special machine called a projector. You can hear the people talking and the music from speakers on the walls. Some movie theatres have many screens, so you can choose different movies. You can buy popcorn, candy, and drinks at the snack counter. The first movie theatre opened a long time ago in New York City.
Sound\n\nSound is something you hear with your ears. It happens when things shake or move back and forth very fast. When you hit a drum, the drum shakes and makes the air around it shake too. These shakes travel through the air to your ears. Your ears feel the shakes and you hear the sound. Sound can travel through air, water, and even solid things like a wall. It travels fastest through solid things. Sound cannot travel in space because there is no air there. That is why astronauts use radios to talk to each other. Some sounds are high like a tiny bell, and some sounds are low like a big drum. Very loud sounds can hurt your ears. Some animals like bats can hear sounds that people cannot hear.
Father\n\nA father is a man who is a parent. You might call him dad or daddy. Most people have a mother and a father. A father helps take care of his child. He gives food, a home, and love. He plays with his child and teaches them new things. Some fathers are not the one who helped make the child, but they still raise the child like a dad. In many places, fathers are seen as protectors who keep the family safe.
Frost\n\nFrost is ice that looks like white powder. It forms on things outside when the air is very cold. Frost can hurt plants and make them die. A greenhouse can keep plants safe from frost.
Garage\n\nA garage is a place where people keep cars. Some garages are part of a house, and some are separate. A garage has a big door that opens to let cars go in and out. Some garages are big buildings with many floors for lots of cars. Other garages are shops where people fix cars that are broken.
Jealousy\n\nJealousy is a feeling people get when they want what someone else has. It is not a happy feeling. When you feel jealous, you might not like the other person very much. This feeling happens when you think you do not have something that you really want. But jealousy is not a good way to think, because everyone has different things that make them special.
Anime\n\nAnime is a kind of cartoon from Japan. Some anime are drawn by hand, and some are made on a computer. You can watch anime on TV, on a computer, or at the movies. There are many kinds of anime, like stories about sports, magic, or love. Many anime are based on Japanese comic books called manga. People all over the world like to watch anime. Sometimes people dress up as their favorite anime characters at big parties called conventions.
Tyrant flycatcher\n\nA tyrant flycatcher is a kind of bird that lives in North, South, and Central America. There are more than 400 different kinds of these birds. They catch bugs to eat, and some also eat fruit or small animals like frogs. Some tyrant flycatchers are called kingbirds, and they can be very brave and fight to protect their home.
Cinematography\n\nCinematography is how people make movies. A person called a cinematographer uses a special camera to take many pictures very fast. When you watch a movie, the pictures move because they are shown one after another. The camera uses light to make the pictures. Sometimes the pictures are saved on film, and sometimes they are saved as computer files. Movies are made for fun, for learning, and for telling stories.
Sandwich\n\nA sandwich is a food made by putting different foods between two pieces of bread. People often put vegetables, meat, or cheese inside. The sandwich is easy and quick to make. Many children eat sandwiches for lunch at school. You can hold a sandwich in one hand and eat it. Some sandwiches have more than two pieces of bread. A sandwich with one piece of bread is called an open sandwich. A toasted sandwich is made with toast or heated in a special machine. There are many kinds of sandwiches, like a BLT with bacon, lettuce, and tomato.
Sadness\n\nSadness is a feeling. It is the opposite of being happy. You feel sad when something bad happens, like when a pet goes away or a friend moves far away. Sometimes people feel sad in winter because there is less sunshine. That is called SAD. If someone feels very sad for a long time, they might have a sickness called depression. But you can feel happy and sad at the same time, like when you miss someone but are glad to see them again.
Multilingualism\n\nMultilingualism is when someone can speak more than one language. If you can speak two languages, that is called bilingualism. Many people who move to a new country learn the new language and still speak their old one. Speaking more than one language helps people talk to more friends and do many kinds of jobs. Most people learn their first language as a baby. They learn other languages later. Some people can speak many languages, and they are called polyglots. Learning a new language can be hard, but it can also be fun.
Peace\n\nPeace is a time when there are no fights or wars. It is a quiet and calm feeling, like a still pond with no ripples. Many people and groups want peace. Some people work hard to stop fights between countries. Others try to help people feel calm inside. When you feel peaceful, you are not scared or angry. You feel safe and happy. Some people pray or sit quietly to feel peace. Peace is good for everyone.
Air mass\n\nAn air mass is a big bunch of air that is all the same temperature and wetness. It can cover a very large area, like many miles. Some air masses are cold, and some are warm. When a cold air mass meets a warm one, it can make clouds and rain.
Liquid\n\nA liquid is a kind of stuff that can pour and flow. It is not hard like a rock and not floaty like air. A liquid takes the shape of whatever you put it in, like a cup or a bowl. If you pour it, it moves and spreads out. Water is a liquid. So is oil and the red stuff in your body called blood. If you make a liquid very cold, it turns into a solid. If you heat it up, it turns into a gas.
Melody\n\nA melody is a group of sounds that go up and down, one after another, like words in a sentence. It is the part of a song you can hum or sing. Some melodies are easy to sing, and some are hard. People who make music often think of a melody first, then add other sounds to go with it. Sometimes two melodies happen at the same time, like in a round where everyone sings the same tune but starts at different times.
Shot put\n\nShot put is a sport where a person pushes a heavy ball as far as they can. The ball is called a shot. You hold the ball near your neck and push it into the air. You cannot throw it or wear gloves. The sport is played outside on a field. It is in the Olympics. The ball can be heavy, like a big rock. Long ago, people threw stones for fun. Now the ball is made of metal.
High-rise building\n\nA high-rise building is a very tall building. People live or work in them. Some are homes for many families. Others are offices or hotels. Very tall ones are called skyscrapers. They are made of strong materials like steel and concrete. Elevators help people go up and down.
Sandstone\n\nSandstone is a kind of rock made from tiny grains of sand that have been pressed together. Sand is made of very small pieces of rocks and minerals. Sandstone can be hard and is used to make flat stones for walking paths. It often looks red because of iron in it. Sandstone forms when sand piles up in layers, like at a river or in a desert, and then gets squished and glued together over a long time.
Greenland Sea\n\nThe Greenland Sea is a big body of cold water. It sits next to Greenland, Iceland, and some islands far north. The water is very cold, and ice forms on top in winter. Many animals live in and near this sea. Seals and whales swim in the water. Fish like cod and herring live there too. On the land nearby, deer and musk oxen eat plants, and polar bears hunt them. People have hunted seals in this sea for a very long time.
Skate (fish)\n\nA skate is a fish that lives in the ocean. It has a flat body and looks like a stingray, but it is smaller. A skate does not have a stinger on its tail. Instead, its tail is thick and has little bumps along the edges. Skates lay eggs, and the eggs come out of the mother's body. There are many kinds of skates, and they live in water all over the world.
Road\n\nA road is a long piece of land that helps people go from one place to another. Roads are made flat and smooth so cars, buses, and bikes can travel on them easily. Some roads are made of dirt or gravel, and some are made of hard concrete or bricks. People have been building roads for a very long time. Roads help us get to school, the store, or a friend's house. Sometimes many cars use a road at once, and that is called a traffic jam. To fix that, people can make the road wider or build new roads.
Dresden\n\nDresden is a city in Germany, in the southeast part of the country. It sits next to a big river called the Elbe. A long time ago, people lived there even before there were written records. The city was bombed a lot during a big war, and many buildings were broken. After the war, people built them again. In 2002, the river flooded and water covered parts of the city. Dresden has an airport where planes fly to other cities like Frankfurt and London. It also has a big train station with trains that go to other places in Germany and to other countries like the Czech Republic and Austria. The city has many people, about 488,000, and it is an important place for culture and learning.
Aircraft carrier\n\nAn aircraft carrier is a very big ship that carries airplanes and helicopters. It is like a small airport that floats on the ocean. The top part is called the flight deck, where airplanes take off and land. Some airplanes use a hook to grab wires on the deck to stop. Others use a big slingshot to help them take off fast. Many sailors live and work on the ship. Aircraft carriers are used by navies to fight from the sea.
Mali\n\nMali is a country in West Africa. It is surrounded by other countries and has no ocean nearby. The north part of Mali is the Sahara Desert, which is very hot and sandy. The Niger River flows in the south, where most people live. The capital city is Bamako. Long ago, big kingdoms like the Mali Empire ruled this land. The city of Timbuktu was a place where people traded and learned. France took over Mali in 1880, but Mali became free in 1960. Today, Mali is one of the poorest countries. Many people work as farmers or fishers near the river. Some people are nomads who move from place to place. Most people follow the religion of Islam. The main language is French, but many people speak Bamanakan. Famous musicians from Mali play the kora and guitar.
Bacon\n\nBacon is a kind of meat that comes from pigs. It is cut into thin slices and cooked in a pan or on a grill. Bacon has a lot of fat, which makes it taste salty and crunchy. Some people do not eat bacon because of their religion. You can also find bacon made from turkey or chicken, which has less fat.
Deccan Plateau\n\nThe Deccan Plateau is a very big, flat piece of land in South India. It looks like a triangle and is surrounded by mountains on three sides. The mountains on the west are called the Western Ghats, and the ones on the east are called the Eastern Ghats. The plateau covers a lot of India and has many different kinds of forests, animals, and weather. Long, long ago, there were huge volcanoes here that poured out hot lava. The lava cooled into hard rock and made step-like hills. Some scientists think the volcanoes might have helped make the weather change and maybe even helped the dinosaurs go away.
Donkey\n\nA donkey is an animal that people use for work. It has long ears that stand up. Donkeys can be gray, brown, black, or white. They make a loud sound called a bray that goes "EAW EAH." Donkeys eat grass and hay. They should not eat too much or they get fat. A baby donkey is called a foal. Some donkeys have a baby with a horse, and that baby is called a mule.
Magma\n\nMagma is hot, melted rock that is under the ground. It is like liquid rock, and it can have bits of solid rock and gas mixed in. There are different kinds of magma. Some magma is thick and makes light-colored rocks. Other magma is runny and makes dark-colored rocks. When magma stays under the ground and cools slowly, it turns into hard rock like granite. When magma comes out of a volcano, it is called lava. Lava cools fast and makes rocks like basalt. Magma comes from deep inside the Earth, where it is very hot. It can move up through cracks and fill big spaces under the ground. Sometimes it stays there and cools, and sometimes it comes out of a volcano.
Lyon\n\nLyon is a big city in France. It is the third biggest city in the country, after Paris and Marseille. Many people live there. The city sits between two rivers. A long time ago, Lyon was called Lugdunum. The middle part of Lyon is a special place that people from all over the world come to see. Some famous sports teams come from Lyon.
Chili pepper\n\nA chili pepper is a fruit that grows on a plant. It comes from Mexico, but now people grow it all over the world. Some chili peppers are very hot, and some are not. People use them to make food taste spicy. You can eat them fresh, dried, or cooked. The word "chili" can be spelled in different ways, like chili, chilli, or chile.
Floodplain\n\nA floodplain is the flat land next to a river. When the river gets too full and overflows, the water spreads out over this flat land. The water leaves behind soft, rich dirt that helps plants grow very well. That is why farmers like to grow food on floodplains. Sometimes the dirt builds up on the sides of the river and makes the banks higher.
Hydrosphere\n\nThe hydrosphere is all the water on our planet. It includes the big oceans, rivers, and lakes. Water is also in the air and under the ground. The hydrosphere covers most of the Earth. Some people use water from the hydrosphere to make electricity.
Income tax\n\nIncome tax is money that people pay to the government from what they earn. If you have a job, your boss takes a little bit of your pay and gives it to the government. People who own their own business also pay some of their money. The government uses this money to pay for things like schools, roads, and hospitals. Not everyone pays the same amount. People who earn more money pay a bigger part of it. This kind of tax started a long time ago in a country called Great Britain.
Crux\n\nCrux is a group of stars in the sky that looks like a cross. People in the southern part of the world can see it. The four brightest stars make the shape of a cross. Long ago, sailors used these stars to help them find their way across the ocean. Today, the Southern Cross is on the flags of Australia, New Zealand, and other countries.
Vegetable\n\nVegetables are plants that people eat as food. They can be roots, leaves, stems, flowers, or seeds. Carrots and potatoes are roots that we eat. Tomatoes are actually fruits because they have seeds, but people call them vegetables. Vegetables are good for you because they have vitamins that help your body stay healthy. Eating vegetables every day is important. You can eat them raw or cooked. Some vegetables grow in gardens, and farmers grow many vegetables on big farms.
Argument\n\nAn argument is when you tell someone why you think something is true. You give reasons to help them agree with you. A good reason is called a strong argument. A bad reason is called a weak argument. Sometimes people argue to decide what to do.
Haiti\n\nHaiti is a country on an island in the Caribbean Sea. It shares the island with another country called the Dominican Republic. The capital city of Haiti is Port-au-Prince. Many people in Haiti speak French and a language called Haitian Creole. Haiti has a hot and rainy climate. There are many mountains in Haiti. The country used to have lots of forests, but many trees were cut down. Haiti is the poorest country in the Americas. Many people there grow food like mangoes and coffee to eat and sell. A big earthquake hit Haiti in 2010 and caused a lot of damage. Haiti has many holidays, and the biggest one is called Mardi Gras.
Plant reproduction\n\nPlant reproduction is how plants make new plants. Some plants make seeds with help from bees or wind. Other plants can grow a whole new plant from just a piece of the old plant, like a leaf or a stem. People can also help by taking a cutting from a plant and putting it in soil to grow a new one.
Umbrella\n\nAn umbrella is a tool you hold in your hand to keep rain or sun off you. It has a cloth top that opens up like a round roof. The cloth is held up by thin sticks called ribs, and there is a long stick in the middle. You push a button or slide a thing to open it. When you are done, you close it and it gets small to carry. People use umbrellas when it rains or when the sun is very hot. Long ago, umbrellas were used only for shade from the sun. Now they are used for rain too. Some umbrellas are made of cloth that keeps water out. The handle can be made of wood, plastic, or metal. Umbrellas come in many colors and can have pictures on them.
Tilapia\n\nTilapia are fish that live in warm water. People grow them on fish farms for food, and some people keep them in fish tanks at home. They come from Africa, America, India, and Sri Lanka. Tilapia can be a problem because they take over rivers and push out other fish.
Blues\n\nThe blues is a kind of music that started in the United States a long time ago. It began with songs that African American people sang. The first blues songs came from near the Mississippi River. Later, people moved to other cities and made new kinds of blues. One important kind is Chicago Blues, which uses electric guitars. Blues songs often tell about sad or hard times. The music uses a simple pattern of chords and notes. Many other types of music, like rock and roll and country, come from the blues.
Kremlin\n\nA Kremlin is a big, strong castle in Russia. The most famous one is in Moscow, the capital city. It has tall walls and towers. Important people work inside the Kremlin. It is where the government of Russia meets. There is also a special place for leaders who died a long time ago.
New York City\n\nNew York City is a very big city in the United States. It is made of five parts called boroughs: Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx, and Staten Island. More than 8 million people live there. Many people from all over the world live in New York City, and they speak many different languages. The city has tall buildings called skyscrapers, and a big park called Central Park. There is a big statue called the Statue of Liberty that stands on an island. Many people visit New York City every year to see Times Square, which is a very bright and busy place. The city also has a subway that runs under the ground and takes people to different places.
Oil\n\nOil is a word for many different kinds of liquids. Some oils come from plants, like olive oil and sunflower oil. People use these oils for cooking food. Other oils come from deep under the ground. People drill big holes to get this oil out. The oil is sent in big ships or pipes to factories. There it is made into things like gasoline for cars and fuel for trucks. Some oils help machines move smoothly without getting stuck. Oil is also used to make plastics, medicines, and soap.
Metal\n\nMetal is a kind of stuff that comes from the ground. Many things are made of metal. Most metals are hard and shiny. They feel heavy and make a ringing sound when you hit them. Heat and electricity can go through metal easily. You can bend metal into thin sheets or pull it into long wires. People use metal to make tools, pots, coins, and jewelry. Some metals are gold, silver, copper, and iron. When you mix metals together, you get an alloy like bronze or steel. Metals are very useful for building things like bridges and ships.
Swimming\n\nSwimming is moving your body through water using your arms and legs. You can swim in the sea, a swimming pool, a river, or a lake. People swim for fun, to get exercise, or as a sport. There are different ways to swim, like the front crawl, breaststroke, and backstroke. Swimming works many muscles at once and does not hurt your joints. It also helps you get stronger and last longer without getting tired. Some swimmers use special tools like goggles to see underwater, a swim cap to keep hair dry, and a kickboard to practice kicking.
Lathe\n\nA lathe is a machine that helps shape things like wood or metal. It spins the material around and around while a tool cuts it into a new shape. People use lathes to make things like baseball bats, candlestick holders, and gun barrels. Some lathes are for wood, and some are for metal. A wood lathe spins a piece of wood while you use a chisel to shape it. A metal lathe works the same way but is stronger and more careful. Some lathes are run by a computer and can make shapes very exactly.
British Isles\n\nThe British Isles are a group of islands in the north-west of Europe. The biggest island is called Great Britain. On Great Britain there are three countries: England, Wales, and Scotland. These three countries join with Northern Ireland to make the United Kingdom. There are also other islands like the Isle of Man, the Isle of Wight, and Anglesey. Some people also count the Channel Islands, but those are closer to France. Long ago, the British Isles were part of a big land called Laurasia. That is why they have many different kinds of rocks and minerals.
Ruler\n\nA ruler is a tool that helps you measure how long or short something is. It has numbers and little lines along the edge. You can also use a ruler to draw straight lines. Rulers can be made of plastic, wood, or metal. They come in different sizes, like 30 centimeters or 12 inches.
Islam\n\nIslam is a religion. People who follow Islam are called Muslims. Muslims believe in one God. They believe that Muhammad was a prophet who brought God's message. The holy book of Islam is called the Quran. Muslims believe the Quran contains God's words. Muslims pray five times every day. They pray in a special building called a mosque. Before praying, Muslims take off their shoes. They pray on a small mat. Muslims also give money to help poor people. They do not eat during daylight in a special month called Ramadan. Many Muslims go on a trip to a holy city called Mecca at least once in their life.
China\n\nChina is a big country in Asia. It is very old and has a long history. Many people live there. The Yangtze River is the longest river in China. It is one of the longest rivers in the world. China has big mountains like the Himalayas. It also has deserts and forests. Long ago, China was ruled by kings and emperors. People in China invented writing a long time ago. They also made paper and fireworks. Today, China is a big country where many things are made and sold all over the world.
Switch\n\nA switch is something that turns things on and off. It changes the way electricity flows. You can find switches on walls in your house to turn on lights. Some switches are small and you push them with your finger. Other switches are big and used for trains to change tracks. A computer has many tiny switches inside that help it work.
Rabbit\n\nA rabbit is a small animal with long ears and soft fur. Rabbits live in many parts of the world. They eat vegetables and hay, and they love to hop around. Wild rabbits dig holes in the ground called burrows, and a group of rabbits living together is called a warren. A baby rabbit is called a kit. Some people keep rabbits as pets. Pet rabbits can live for eight to twelve years. Rabbits are careful because bigger animals like foxes and wolves try to eat them. When they feel scared, they run to their burrow to be safe.
Pound (mass)\n\nA pound is a way to measure how heavy something is. People in the United States and a few other countries use pounds to tell how much things weigh. One pound is the same as 16 ounces. A big bag of sugar might weigh one pound. A small baby weighs about 7 or 8 pounds. The word 'lb' is short for a Latin word that means 'weight'.
Erosion\n\nErosion is when water, wind, ice, or gravity move rocks and dirt from one place to another. The Sun gives energy that makes wind blow and water flow, which helps erosion happen. Water can carry rocks and soil downhill. Fast water can move big rocks, and slow water moves tiny bits. Wind can blow small pieces of dirt far away. Ice can break rocks when it freezes in cracks. Gravity pulls rocks and dirt downhill, like in a landslide. Erosion can make canyons and river deltas. It can also cause problems for farmers by washing away good soil.
SMS\n\nSMS is a way to send short written messages on a phone. People call them text messages. You can send a text to another person's phone. A text can only be as long as 160 letters. If you write more, it gets split into two or more texts. People use texts when they want to be quiet or send something private. Some phone plans let you send as many texts as you want.
Crane fly\n\nA crane fly is an insect that looks like a big mosquito but does not bite people or animals. It has very long, thin legs and a long, thin body. Its legs break off easily if you try to catch it. Crane flies cannot sting. They can fly, but not very well, and sometimes wobble in the air. Adult crane flies only live for about 10 to 15 days. Baby crane flies are called leatherjackets and live in the ground, where they eat grass roots. Some people call crane flies daddy longlegs.
Vadodara\n\nVadodara is a big city in Gujarat, India. It sits next to the Vishwamitri River. The city has a big, beautiful palace called Lakshmi Vilas Palace. There is also a large university there. Many people live in Vadodara. They speak Gujarati, Urdu, Marathi, and Hindi. The city has an airport and a busy train station. Many famous cricket players were born in Vadodara.
Madagascar\n\nMadagascar is a big island in the Indian Ocean. It is near the east coast of Africa. Many people live there. Long ago, Madagascar was part of a huge land. Then it broke away and moved close to Africa. Because it was alone for a long time, many special animals live only there. Some animals are in danger because people cut down forests. Farmers grow coffee and vanilla on the island. Madagascar sells more vanilla than any other country. People also visit Madagascar as tourists.
Wind turbine\n\nA wind turbine is a tall machine that uses the wind to make electricity. It has big blades that spin around when the wind blows. The spinning blades turn a part inside that makes electricity. This electricity can be used to power lights and other things in houses. Wind turbines are often put in groups called wind farms. They do not make smoke or dirty the air. Some people think they are noisy, but they are not much louder than an air conditioner.
Metalworking\n\nMetalworking is making things out of metal. People heat metal until it is soft, then hit it with a hammer to shape it. They can also pour hot liquid metal into a mold to make a shape. Some people cut metal with special tools or spin it to make round shapes. People have been working with metal for a very long time, almost 7000 years. They make tools, jewelry, and big buildings from metal.
Florence\n\nFlorence is a city in Italy. It sits on a river called the Arno. Many people live there. A long time ago, Florence was the home of many famous artists who made beautiful paintings and buildings. The city has a big football team called Fiorentina. The food in Florence is mostly meat, like big steaks cooked over hot coals. People also eat bread without salt and soups with olive oil. In summer, Florence is very hot, and in winter it can snow a little.
Lizard\n\nA lizard is a reptile with scaly skin. Lizards live all over the world, except in very cold places. Some lizards are very small, like geckos, and some are very big, like the Komodo dragon. Lizards can have different colors and patterns on their skin. Many lizards can lose their tail to get away from danger, and then grow a new one. Some lizards use bright colors to talk to other lizards or to scare away animals that want to eat them. Lizards like to sit in the sun to get warm.
Stock exchange\n\nA stock exchange is a place where people buy and sell small pieces of companies, called shares. Some stock exchanges are real buildings, like the New York Stock Exchange. Others are on computers, like the NASDAQ. When many people sell their shares at once, prices can drop very low. This happened on a day called Black Tuesday in 1929. After that, many banks ran out of money, and it was hard for people to buy food and other things. That hard time was called the Great Depression.
Interpersonal relationship\n\nInterpersonal relationship is how people are connected to each other. It is the way two or more people know each other and spend time together.
Concert\n\nA concert is when people play music for other people to listen to. The people who listen are called the audience. The musicians stand on a stage so everyone can see them. Concerts can be inside a big room called a concert hall, or outside in a field or stadium. Sometimes one person plays alone, and that is called a recital. People usually buy tickets to go to a concert. Some concerts are very big and last for many days; those are called festivals. At a concert, you might hear loud music, see bright lights, and watch the musicians play. You can clap and cheer when the music is over.
Reading\n\nReading is looking at marks on paper and knowing what they mean. When you read, you understand words that are written down. A long time ago, most people did not know how to read. They worked on farms and did not need to read. But mothers taught their daughters to read at home. Now, many people read books, signs, and stories. Reading can take you to make-believe worlds or help you learn about real things.
Thailand\n\nThailand is a country in Southeast Asia. It is next to Laos, Cambodia, Malaysia, and Myanmar. The king is the head of the country. Most people in Thailand follow Buddhism. The capital city is Bangkok. Thailand has many temples with golden roofs. People eat rice and spicy food. Elephants live there too.
Creativity\n\nCreativity is when you make something new. It can be a drawing, a story, a song, or even a new way to solve a problem. People use creativity in art, music, science, and many other things. Some people think only humans can be creative, but animals like apes and birds can also make new things to help them live. Creativity is special because it helps us think of ideas that no one has thought of before.
Cinema of India\n\nThe cinema of India is all the movies made in India. People in India have been making movies for a very long time, since the early 1900s. These movies are liked by many people in India and also in other countries like the United Kingdom and the United States. In 2010, India made more movies than any other country, even more than Hollywood and China.
Hollywood\n\nHollywood is a place in Los Angeles, California. It is very famous because many movies and TV shows are made there. You can see the big Hollywood Sign on a hill. There is a special sidewalk called the Hollywood Walk of Fame with stars on the ground. Each star has the name of a famous person who makes movies or music. Many people visit Hollywood to see the stars and the big sign. The first movie made in Hollywood was a short film called "In Old California" in 1910.
Chemical element\n\nA chemical element is a special kind of stuff that is made of only one kind of tiny building block called an atom. Everything in the world is made from elements. There are 118 different elements. Some elements are hard solids, like iron. Some are gases you cannot see, like oxygen. A few are liquids, like mercury. Each element has a short name, like 'C' for carbon or 'O' for oxygen. When elements join together, they can make new things. For example, sodium and chlorine join to make table salt. Your body is made of 26 different elements.
Orion (constellation)\n\nOrion is a group of stars in the night sky. It looks like a big hourglass shape. In the middle, there are three bright stars in a row. That part is called Orion's Belt. Orion has many stars, and some of them are very bright. One star, Betelgeuse, is a huge red star. Another star, Rigel, is the brightest in Orion. In old stories, Orion was a great hunter. People use Orion to find other stars in the sky.
Conformity\n\nConformity is when someone does what other people do. Sometimes you copy your friends because you want them to like you. Other times you copy because you are not sure what to do and think others know better. When you are in a group, you might change what you say or do to fit in. For example, if everyone is sitting still in a quiet place, you might sit still too even if you want to run and play. People can conform on the outside but still feel different on the inside. Or they might truly believe the same thing as the group. Conformity helps people get along, but it can also make someone do something they know is not right just because everyone else is doing it.
Interjection\n\nAn interjection is a word that shows how you feel. You say "Wow!" when you are surprised. You say "Ouch!" when something hurts. You say "Yay!" when you are happy. These words can stand by themselves.
New Testament\n\nThe New Testament is a part of the Christian Bible. It tells the story of Jesus and his friends. It has 27 books. Four books are called Gospels. They tell about Jesus's life. Other books are letters written to people who believed in Jesus. The letters teach about being good and loving God. Different churches have the same books, but some put them in a different order.
Travel\n\nTravel is when you go from one place to another place. Some people travel every day to go to school or work. That is called commuting. Some people travel to faraway places for fun on vacation. That is called tourism. When you travel on vacation, you might sleep in a hotel or a tent. People can travel by car, train, plane, or boat. Some people write books about the places they visit.
Jet engine\n\nA jet engine is a machine that pushes things forward by blowing out a fast stream of air or gas. Think of a balloon that you let go of — the air rushes out and the balloon zooms across the room. That is like a jet engine. Big airplanes use jet engines to fly high in the sky. The engine takes in air at the front, mixes it with fuel, and burns it. The hot air shoots out the back and pushes the plane forward. Some jet engines have fans inside that help make the air move faster. Rockets also use a kind of jet engine, but they carry their own air and work in space.
Biography\n\nA biography is a story about a person's life. It tells you about what they did and who they were. Some biographies are books, and some are movies. A long time ago, people wrote biographies about kings and rulers. Today, you can find biographies about many different people.
Geometer moth\n\nA geometer moth is a kind of moth that flies at night. Its baby, called a caterpillar, moves in a funny way. The caterpillar has only two pairs of feet in the middle, so it pulls its body up like a little loop. It looks like it is measuring the ground, so people call it an inchworm. The adult moth has wide wings and a thin body. It sits with its wings flat and looks like a butterfly. Many geometer moths are brown or gray to hide on tree bark.
Whale\n\nA whale is a very big animal that lives in the ocean. Whales are mammals, which means they breathe air, have a little bit of hair, and are warm. There are two kinds of whales: baleen whales and toothed whales. Baleen whales have no teeth. They open their big mouths and take in water with tiny food inside. Then they push the water out through long, hard strips called baleen, and the food stays inside. Toothed whales have sharp teeth and eat bigger fish. They can make sounds to find things in the dark water. Whales breathe through a hole on top of their head called a blowhole. When they come up, they shoot water out first, then take a breath. A baby whale is called a calf. The mother whale takes care of her calf for a long time. Whales can jump out of the water and splash back down. That is called breaching. Some people used to hunt whales for meat and oil, but now many countries say it is not allowed.
Grammar\n\nGrammar is the set of rules for how we put words together to make sentences. When we talk, we use grammar without thinking about it. When we write, we try to use correct grammar. Different languages have different grammar rules. For example, in English we say 'fast cars' but in Spanish they say 'cars fast'. Words can change their endings to show meaning, like adding 's' for more than one thing. Verbs show when something happens, like 'walk' and 'walked'. Grammar also tells us about nouns (naming words), verbs (action words), and adjectives (describing words).
Tram\n\nA tram is like a light train that carries people around a city. It runs on tracks on the street. Many people can ride a tram at the same time. Riding a tram instead of a car helps keep the air clean and the roads not too busy. Some trams are old and some are new. Old trams from long ago are called historic streetcars. In Hong Kong, there are special trams with two floors. The biggest tram networks are in cities like Melbourne, Berlin, and Moscow. Trams first started in the 1830s and were pulled by horses. Later, they used electricity to move.
Christmas\n\nChristmas is a happy holiday in December. It celebrates the birth of a baby named Jesus. Many people put up a tree with lights and ornaments. They give presents to family and friends. Some people go to church to sing songs. A man called Santa Claus brings toys to children. People eat special food and spend time together.
Superstition\n\nA superstition is a belief that does not make sense or have proof. Some people think black cats bring bad luck. Other people look for four-leaf clovers because they think these bring good luck. Some people do not look into broken mirrors because they think it brings bad luck. Not everyone believes in superstitions.
Angkor Wat\n\nAngkor Wat is a very big temple in a country called Cambodia. It was built a long, long time ago by a king. People went there to pray to their gods. It is the biggest place for praying in the whole world. The temple has tall towers and stone walls with carvings. Over time, some parts of the temple started to fall apart.
Mule\n\nA mule is a baby of a horse mom and a donkey dad. It has long ears like a donkey and a body like a horse. Mules can be white, gray, brown, or black. They are strong and help people pull carts and carry things. Most mules cannot have babies of their own. They are bigger than donkeys but smaller than horses.
Irrigation\n\nIrrigation is when people give water to plants to help them grow when there is not enough rain. The water can come from rivers, lakes, or wells. There are different ways to water plants. Sprinkler irrigation shoots water into the air like rain. Drip irrigation lets water drip right onto the plant roots, which uses less water. Surface irrigation floods the ground with water, like in rice fields. Sometimes people water plants by hand with buckets or watering cans. Irrigation helps farmers grow more food, but it can cost a lot of money and needs to be done carefully so the soil does not get too salty.
Glider\n\nA glider is a plane that does not have a motor. It flies through the air without an engine. The pilot uses a stick to steer the glider. Some gliders have one seat, and some have two seats. Gliders with long wings are called sailplanes. They can stay in the air for a long time by finding air that goes up. Good pilots can fly very far this way. Gliders cannot take off by themselves. A motor plane or a ground motor pulls them up into the sky. There are also hang-gliders and paragliders. Hang-gliders have a frame but no seats. Paragliders have wings like a parachute. These are often launched from hills or cliffs.
Revenge\n\nRevenge is when someone hurts another person because they think that person hurt them first. It is like saying 'you hurt me, so I will hurt you back.' People have felt this way for a very long time, even chimpanzees do it. Some scientists found that thinking about revenge makes a part of your brain feel happy, like getting a treat. But revenge can be bad. It can make the hurt go back and forth, and both people end up sad. Sometimes people who were hurt when they were little might want revenge more. It is better to find other ways to feel better.
Pillow\n\nA pillow is a soft cushion you put under your head when you sleep in a bed. It is made from two pieces of cloth sewn together and stuffed with something soft like feathers or man-made fluff. A pillow is usually shaped like a rectangle. A pillowcase is a cloth cover that goes over the pillow to keep it clean. Long ago, people in ancient Egypt used pillows made of wood or stone. Those pillows looked like stands and helped keep bugs away from their faces at night.
Mask\n\nA mask is something you wear on your face. It can cover your whole face or just part of it. People wear masks for many reasons. Some wear a mask to keep their face safe, like a gas mask that stops bad air from getting in. Doctors and nurses wear masks to keep germs away from sick people. Wood-workers wear masks so they do not breathe in tiny pieces of wood. Long ago, people wore masks during big sicknesses like the plague and the flu. Some masks are used for fun, like in plays or at parties, so no one knows who you are. The oldest mask ever found is made of stone and is 9000 years old.
Hot air balloon\n\nA hot air balloon is a big, colorful bag that can fly up in the sky. It works by heating the air inside with a fire. Hot air is lighter than cold air, so it makes the balloon go up. People stand in a basket tied to the balloon with ropes. The first hot air balloon that carried people was made a long time ago by two brothers. They sent a sheep, a duck, and a rooster up first. Later, people flew in it too. Today, you can see hot air balloons at festivals where they fly together in the morning or evening. Some balloons are round, and some are shaped like animals or other fun things.
Extremophile\n\nAn extremophile is a living thing that likes to live in very hot, very cold, very salty, or very dark places where most other living things cannot live. Most extremophiles are tiny and you need a microscope to see them. Some live deep under the ocean near hot water that comes out of the ground. Others live inside hot rocks far under the ground. A few extremophiles are bigger, like some bugs that live in very salty water. These special living things help scientists learn about where life can live.
Lake Eyre\n\nLake Eyre is a big lake in Australia. It is the lowest place in Australia, below the level of the sea. The lake is in a very dry desert, where almost no rain falls. When it fills up with water, it becomes the biggest lake in Australia. The water comes from rivers far away in Queensland. The lake does not have a way for water to flow out, so the water dries up and leaves salt behind. When the lake is full, many birds come to visit, like pelicans and ducks. Some fish live in the water when it is fresh, but they die when the water gets too salty. The lake turns pink when it is shallow because of tiny plants in the water. People sometimes sail boats on the lake when it has water. The lake is named after a man named Edward Eyre, who was the first European to see it.
Kyrgyzstan\n\nKyrgyzstan is a country in the middle of Asia. It is far away from any ocean. The country is very rocky and has tall mountains. More than half of the land is covered by mountains. The biggest lake is called Issyk-Kul Lake. It is a very big mountain lake. The capital city is Bishkek. People there speak Russian and another language. Many people in Kyrgyzstan are Muslim. The country used to be part of the Soviet Union. It became its own country in 1991. Farming is very important there. People grow wheat, potatoes, cotton, and fruit. Some farming is still done by hand or with horses. Kyrgyzstan has gold, coal, and other metals in the ground.
Cinnamon\n\nCinnamon is a spice that comes from the inside of a tree's bark. It smells very nice and tastes sweet. People put cinnamon in sweet foods like cinnamon rolls and cookies. Some people also put it in hot drinks like tea. Cinnamon is grown in a country called Sri Lanka.
Rodeo\n\nA rodeo is a sport where cowboys and cowgirls show how good they are at riding horses and working with cows. Long ago, cowboys in North America had to take care of cattle every day. They started to have contests to see who was the best at riding and roping. Today, people go to rodeos to watch riders try to stay on bucking horses or catch cows with a rope. The best riders can win prizes.
Classical music\n\nClassical music is a kind of music that people have been making for a very long time. It is written down so that musicians can learn to play it. This music is special because it is so good that people still want to listen to it many years later. Some famous composers who made classical music are Bach, Mozart, and Beethoven. Classical music can be played by many instruments, like violins, flutes, trumpets, and drums. It can also be sung by people with strong voices. Some classical music is happy, some is sad, and some tells a big story. People play classical music in concert halls and churches. It is different from pop music because it is not just made to be popular for a short time.
Sofia\n\nSofia is a big city in a country called Bulgaria. It is the most important city in that country, where the leaders work. Many people live there, more than one million. Sofia is very old, older than many other cities in Europe. It has a big university, a library, a theater, and a big park with waterfalls. There are also many movie theaters. Sofia is high up on a hill, so it is one of the highest capital cities in Europe.
Skepticism\n\nSkepticism is when you have doubt about something. It means you want to see proof before you believe something is true. People who are skeptics ask lots of questions. They do not believe things just because someone says so. They want to check and see for themselves. This helps people learn what is real and what is not.
Mosaic\n\nA mosaic is a picture or pattern made from many tiny pieces of stone, glass, or tiles. People put the pieces into cement to make them stick. Mosaics can be on walls, floors, or ceilings inside a building. They can also be on sidewalks outside. Some mosaics are made from round pebbles. Others use shiny gold tiles that are really glass with a thin gold leaf inside. Long ago, the Ancient Romans made mosaics that we can still see today. In Italy, many old churches have beautiful mosaics that tell stories from the Bible. Today, people make mosaics from broken dishes, mirrors, or old tiles to make cities look pretty.
Sound recording and reproduction\n\nSound recording and reproduction is when a machine catches sounds and saves them so you can hear them again later. The first machine for recording sound was the phonograph, invented by Thomas Edison in 1877. It had a spinning cylinder covered with soft material. A small needle made marks on the cylinder as sound waves shook it. Later, flat records were made that could be copied many times. Then came tape recorders, which use magnetic tape to store sounds. Cassettes are small tape cartridges with two sides. Compact discs, or CDs, came next and use digital data to play music. Today, many people listen to music online.
Rowing (sport)\n\nRowing is a sport where people race boats using long sticks called oars. The oars are attached to the boat with little hooks. In some boats, each person has two oars, one in each hand. In other boats, each person holds one oar with both hands. Some boats are very small and have only one person. Other boats are big and have eight people rowing together. Rowing races are on calm water, like a lake or a river. The race path is two kilometers long and has lanes marked with floating balls. Rowing is a very old sport. It was in the first Olympic games a long time ago. Now, many countries have rowing teams, and people row in the Olympics every four years.
Malta\n\nMalta is a small country that is an island in the Mediterranean Sea. It is near Italy. About 500,000 people live there. The capital city is Valletta. People in Malta speak Maltese and English. Many people also speak Italian. Malta used to have its own money called the Maltese Lira, but now it uses the Euro. Long ago, knights lived on the island. Malta became its own country in 1964.
Saudi Arabia\n\nSaudi Arabia is a big country in Asia. It is very hot and mostly covered with sand. The country has two holy cities called Mecca and Medina. Many Muslims from all over the world visit Mecca for a special trip called hajj. People who are not Muslim cannot go into Mecca. Most people in Saudi Arabia speak Arabic. The country has a lot of oil, which is used to make gas for cars. The national food is called Kabsa, which is rice with meat. Football is a popular sport there. The country is ruled by a king.
Vitamin\n\nA vitamin is a tiny thing in food that helps your body work right. Your body needs only a little bit of each vitamin. There are many kinds, like vitamin A, vitamin C, and vitamin D. Oranges and lemons have vitamin C. Your body cannot make vitamins, so you get them from the food you eat. If you do not get enough of a vitamin for a long time, you can get sick. For example, not enough vitamin C can cause a sickness called scurvy. Many people take vitamin pills to stay healthy. Some vitamins, like A, D, E, and K, can be stored in your body for later. Others, like vitamin C, leave your body quickly.
Respiratory system\n\nYour respiratory system helps you breathe. When you breathe in, air goes into your nose and mouth, down a tube called the windpipe, and into your lungs. Your lungs are like two soft bags inside your chest. They take in oxygen from the air, which your body needs. Then they push out a waste gas called carbon dioxide when you breathe out. Your lungs have tiny air sacs that swap oxygen for carbon dioxide. The oxygen goes into your blood and travels all over your body. Your diaphragm, a big muscle under your lungs, helps pull air in and push air out.
Cyrillic script\n\nThe Cyrillic script is a way of writing letters. It is used for the Russian language and many other languages. Long ago, two men named Cyril and Methodius made an early version of this alphabet. The letters look different from the ones we use in English. Some countries that used Cyrillic later switched to a different alphabet.
Fiction\n\nFiction is a story that someone makes up in their head. It is not about real things that happened. Fiction can be in books, movies, or on TV. The people in a fiction story are called characters. There is usually a good guy and a bad guy. The story has a beginning, a middle, and an end. The most exciting part is called the climax. Fiction is fun to read or watch because it lets you imagine new things.
Chongqing\n\nChongqing is a big city in Central China. It is a very crowded place with many people. A long time ago, people called the Ba lived there. Later, a king named Qin built a new city there. The city has had many names over the years. During a big war, the Japanese dropped bombs on Chongqing. Today, it is a special city that is part of China.
Artificial selection\n\nArtificial selection is when people choose which plants or animals to make babies together. A farmer might pick the biggest cow to have a baby cow, so the baby cow will also be big. People have done this for a very long time with dogs, cows, and plants. It is like picking your favorite toy to play with, but with living things. Sometimes people do it by accident, like when early farmers kept the best plants without knowing it.
National park\n\nA national park is a big piece of land that the government keeps safe. The land is protected so that animals and plants can live there without being hurt. People can visit national parks to see pretty trees, rivers, and wild animals. The first national park was Yellowstone in the United States. It was made a long time ago in 1872. Today there are many national parks all around the world.
Judaism\n\nJudaism is the religion of Jewish people. It is one of the oldest religions in the world. Jewish people believe in one God. They believe God made the whole world and everything in it. The most important holy book is called the Torah. The Torah tells Jewish people how to live and be good. Jewish people follow many rules called mitzvot. These rules help them be kind, fair, and honest. They also help them love God and take care of the world. Jewish people celebrate special holidays like Passover and Hanukkah. They go to a special building called a synagogue to pray and learn. A Jewish teacher is called a rabbi. Jewish people believe that everyone should be treated with respect because all people are made in God's image.
Crane (bird)\n\nA crane is a very tall bird with long legs and a long neck. It lives near water like marshes and lakes. Cranes can be white, gray, or brown. They are the tallest flying birds in the world. When they fly, they stretch their neck out in front and their legs stick out behind. Cranes eat plants, small animals, and bugs. They live in big groups called flocks. Cranes make loud sounds that can be heard far away. They do special dances by jumping and bowing. Baby cranes grow fast and learn to fly in a few months. Some people think cranes are special and holy, especially in Japan.
Tuatara\n\nA tuatara is a reptile that looks like a lizard but is special. It lives only in New Zealand. Tuatara are green-brown and can be as long as a big ruler. They have a row of pointy spikes on their back. Boys have bigger spikes than girls. Tuatara have two rows of teeth on top and one row on the bottom. They also have a third eye on top of their head, but it does not see like a normal eye. Baby tuatara can see it, but it gets covered up as they grow. Tuatara do not have ears, but they can still hear. They are in danger because rats eat their eggs and people change their homes. Now they live on small islands where it is safe.
Laboratory\n\nA laboratory is a special room where people do science. Scientists work in a lab to learn new things. They mix colorful liquids, look at tiny things through a microscope, and do experiments. You can find labs in schools, hospitals, and big buildings. People in labs wear white coats and sometimes goggles to keep their eyes safe.
Board game\n\nA board game is a game you play on a flat board with special spaces. You move little pieces around the board. Some games use dice or cards to make things different each time. There are many kinds of board games. Chess and checkers are played on a board with black and white squares. Monopoly and Scrabble are newer games that many people like to play.
Photographic film\n\nPhotographic film is a thin plastic sheet that can take pictures. It has a special coating that catches light. The film is kept in a small metal can to keep light away. When you take a picture, light hits the film and makes a hidden picture. After you take all the pictures, the film goes to a special place where it gets a bath in chemicals. That makes the pictures show up. Film can only be used once. Some film takes pictures in black and white, and some takes pictures in color. Some film needs a lot of light, and some needs only a little. Film comes in different sizes. The most common size is 35 millimeter. Before film, people used glass plates to take pictures. Now most people use digital cameras, but some still like film.
Rugby football\n\nRugby football is a sport played by two teams on a big field. Each team has 15 players. The players try to get more points than the other team in 80 minutes. They can carry the ball or kick it. They can pass the ball to teammates, but only to players who are not closer to the other team's goal. To score a try, a player must touch the ball to the ground in the other team's special area. After a try, the team can kick the ball through the H-shaped goal for extra points. Players tackle the person with the ball to stop them. Tackling means grabbing and making them fall. You cannot touch the neck. There are two kinds of rugby: Rugby Union and Rugby League. Rugby Union is the most popular. The Rugby World Cup happens every four years.
Anxiety\n\nAnxiety is a feeling of worry or fear inside your mind. It can make your tummy hurt or give you a headache. Everyone feels anxious sometimes, like before a test or when something scary happens. Most of the time, the feeling goes away after a while. But some people feel very worried a lot, and it makes it hard to play or sleep. They might shake, sweat, or have a fast heartbeat. A doctor can help them feel better with medicine or by talking to someone. You can also feel calmer by taking deep breaths or doing quiet things like drawing.
Underwater diving\n\nUnderwater diving is when a person goes under the water to do things. People dive to see fish and pretty coral, to fix boats, to find treasure, or just for fun. Some divers wear a big tank of air on their back so they can breathe underwater. Others hold their breath and swim down for a short time. Divers wear special goggles to see clearly and flippers on their feet to swim fast.
Lark\n\nA lark is a small bird that lives in many dry and open places. It can be found in the Old World, Australia, and one kind lives in North America. Larks sing beautiful songs while flying high up in the sky.
Protest\n\nA protest is when many people come together in a public place to show that they like or do not like something. For example, people might protest to say that something is not fair. People can protest in different ways. They can hold signs, sing songs, or write letters. Sometimes protests can be dangerous.
Pool (cue sports)\n\nPool is a game played on a big table with six holes called pockets. Players use a long stick called a cue to hit balls into the pockets. The balls are different colors and numbers. There are many kinds of pool games, like eight-ball and nine-ball. People play pool for fun or in contests. The table has a soft green cloth on top.
Partnership\n\nA partnership is when two or more people work together to do something. The people who work together are called partners. Sometimes partners make a special paper called a contract to say they will work together. Partners can share a business and help each other make money. If one partner makes money, they both get some of it. Sometimes a partnership is not just people but big groups or companies too.
Audience\n\nAn audience is a group of people who watch or listen to something together. They might watch a play, a movie, or a sports game. Sometimes the audience claps or cheers. Other times they just sit quietly and watch.
History of the United States\n\nThe history of the United States is the story of what happened in the past in a country called the United States. Long ago, Native Americans lived there for many years. Then people from England came and started towns. In 1776, the people who lived there said they wanted to be free from England. They wrote a paper called the Declaration of Independence. A man named George Washington helped them win a war, and he became the first president. Later, the country grew bigger and had a big war between the North and the South. In the 1900s, the United States fought in big wars and became very strong. People from many places came to live there. Today, it is a big country with many people and many different ways of life.
Lily\n\nA lily is a flower that grows from a bulb in the ground. It can be very tall and comes in many colors like white, yellow, pink, and orange. Lilies grow in Europe, North America, and Asia. Some lilies grow in forests or grassy mountains, and some like wet ground. The flower has petals that come in groups of three. Some lilies can make cats very sick if they eat them, so be careful.
Adult\n\nAn adult is a person who has grown up. In many places, you become an adult when you are 18 years old. Adults can make their own choices and do not have to ask a parent for permission. They also have to be responsible for what they do. Some adults can vote or drive a car. A child is not an adult yet.
Balkans\n\nThe Balkans is a place in Europe, near the bottom right side. It is a big piece of land with water on three sides: the Black Sea and the Mediterranean Sea. The name comes from a word that means "chain of wooded mountains." Many different countries are in the Balkans, like Bulgaria, Greece, and Serbia. People there speak different languages and follow different religions, like Christianity and Islam. Long ago, the Romans came and took over the land. They were very strong and spread their way of life.
Aeneas\n\nAeneas is a hero from old stories. He was a prince from a city called Troy. His father was Anchises and his mother was a goddess. Aeneas carried his father out of Troy when the city was burning. He went on a long trip and later helped start the city of Rome. Many people wrote stories about him, like Virgil and Shakespeare.
Milk\n\nMilk is a white liquid that comes from animals like cows and goats. It is the first food for baby animals and human babies. Milk helps bones and teeth grow strong. You must keep milk cold in the fridge, or it will turn sour. People make cream, butter, yogurt, ice cream, and cheese from milk. Some milk comes from plants, like coconut milk and almond milk, but they are not real milk. Many people drink cow's milk every day.
Northern Ireland\n\nNorthern Ireland is a country that is part of the United Kingdom. It is on the island of Ireland. The capital city is Belfast. About 1.9 million people live there. People speak English, Irish, and Ulster Scots. Many people are Christian. Some are Catholic and some are Protestant. After a big agreement in 1998, there has been more peace. People like to play football, Gaelic football, and rugby. Trains go from Belfast to other towns and to Dublin.
Video game\n\nA video game is a game you play on a screen. You can play it on a TV, a computer, a phone, or a small handheld machine. Some video games are about jumping and running, some are about racing cars, and some are about solving puzzles. To play at home, you can use a special machine called a console. Some consoles are big and plug into the TV, and some are small enough to carry around. People also play games on their phones or computers. Sometimes people have contests to see who is the best at a game, and that is called e-sports. The first video game was made a long time ago, in 1958, and it was a simple tennis game.
Hebrew Bible\n\nThe Hebrew Bible is a special book of old stories and rules. It is also called the Tanakh. It has three parts: the Torah, the Nevi'im, and the Ketuvim. The stories are mostly written in Hebrew. Many people read this book to learn about God and how to be good. It is used by Jewish people and also by Christians, but they call it the Old Testament.
Computer file\n\nA computer file is a place to keep information that goes together. You can open a file to see what is inside or add new things to it. Files live on a computer, like on a hard drive or a memory stick. Different files hold different kinds of information, like pictures, words, or music. The way the information is arranged in a file is called its format.
Saint Lucia\n\nSaint Lucia is a small island country in the warm Caribbean Sea. It is a tropical place with tall green mountains and sandy beaches. The capital city is Castries, where many people live. The island has two famous mountains called the Pitons that look like big pointy hills. Saint Lucia also has a volcano you can drive right up to. The weather is warm all year, with a dry season and a rainy season. Many people visit Saint Lucia on vacation to swim in the clear sea and play on the beaches. The people there speak English and a special language called Creole. Saint Lucia is the only country in the world named after a woman, Saint Lucy.
Birthday\n\nA birthday is the day you were born. On your birthday, you might have a party with your family and friends. You can eat cake and get presents. People often sing the song "Happy Birthday to You." A birthday cake has candles on top. Sometimes the number of candles is how old you are. Not everyone celebrates birthdays. Some people believe a special stone is linked to the month you were born.
Golden Gate Bridge\n\nThe Golden Gate Bridge is a very long bridge in California. It goes over the water from San Francisco to another place called Marin County. The bridge is painted a pretty reddish-orange color. People can drive cars or ride bikes across it. Some people also walk across it. Before the bridge was built, people had to take a boat to cross the water. The bridge was finished in 1937. It has tall towers and long cables that hold it up. At night, the bridge lights up and looks beautiful.
Iguanodon\n\nIguanodon is a big dinosaur that lived a very long time ago. It ate plants and had strong teeth for chewing. Iguanodon could walk on two legs or four legs. When it walked slowly, it used all four legs. When it ran fast, it used only its back legs. Its front legs were shorter than its back legs. Iguanodon had a long tail that stayed up off the ground. It had sharp thumb spikes that it used to fight other dinosaurs. Iguanodon lived in many places like Europe, North America, Africa, and Asia.
Acid rain\n\nAcid rain is rain that is very sour and can hurt things. It happens when smoke from factories, cars, and power plants goes up into the sky and mixes with clouds. The rain becomes sour and can hurt trees, fish, and even buildings. Some buildings made of stone get holes in them from acid rain. People are trying to make less smoke so the rain is not so sour.
Kerosene\n\nKerosene is a clear liquid that can catch fire easily. It is made from oil found deep in the ground. People use kerosene to make light in camping lamps. It can also be used in some stoves for cooking food and in heaters to keep warm. Big airplanes use kerosene as fuel to fly. In some places, people use kerosene to cook meals.
Costume\n\nA costume is a set of clothes you wear to look different. Some costumes show where people come from, like a kilt from Scotland or a kimono from Japan. Actors wear costumes when they pretend to be someone else in a play. People also wear costumes at fun parties like Halloween, where children wear scary masks and outfits.
Blackberry\n\nA blackberry is a small, round, black fruit that you can eat. It grows on a tall plant with thorny stems. The plant can grow as high as a tall person. Blackberries taste sweet and a little bit sour. They grow in many places around the world, like gardens and wild areas. Sometimes the plant grows so fast that people call it a weed.
Traditional medicine\n\nTraditional medicine is a way of helping sick people get better using old knowledge that families and communities have passed down for a very long time. Before doctors had modern tools and medicines, people used plants, roots, and other things from nature to heal. Some people still use traditional medicine today, along with the medicine from the doctor.
Primary color\n\nPrimary colors are special colors that you can mix together to make other colors. You cannot make a primary color by mixing other colors. There are two kinds of primary colors. One kind is for light, like on a TV or computer screen. Those primary colors are red, green, and blue. When you mix red and green light, you get yellow. Mixing green and blue makes cyan, which is a light blue. Mixing red and blue makes magenta, which is a pinkish purple. If you mix all three together, you get white light. The other kind is for paint or crayons. Artists often use red, yellow, and blue as their primary colors. Printers use cyan, magenta, yellow, and black. When you mix paint, yellow and blue make green, yellow and red make orange, and red and blue make purple. Mixing all the paint colors together makes a dark brown or black.
Prayer\n\nPrayer is a way to talk to God. You can say the words out loud, think them in your head, or sing them. People pray to say thank you, to ask for help, or to say sorry. Some people pray alone, and some pray with others. Christians often say a prayer called the Lord's Prayer. Muslims pray five times every day. Hindus pray to many different holy beings.
Coal\n\nCoal is a hard black rock that can be burned to make heat and energy. It comes from plants that lived a very long time ago, millions of years before people were on Earth. Those plants got squished under layers of dirt and rock for a very long time, and that turned them into coal. People dig coal out of the ground and burn it in big buildings called power stations to make electricity for lights, TVs, and other things. But burning coal makes smoke that is bad for the air and can make people sick. It also makes the Earth warmer, which is not good. That is why many countries are trying to use less coal and use sun or wind power instead.
Weaving\n\nWeaving is how people make cloth. You take two sets of threads and cross them over and under each other. One set goes up and down, and the other goes side to side. This is done on a big frame called a loom. Long ago, people used a tool called a shuttle to carry the thread across. Today, some machines can weave very fast without a shuttle.
Scorpion\n\nA scorpion is a small animal with eight legs and a long tail that ends with a stinger. It has two big claws in front. Scorpions live in hot, dry places like deserts. They hide under rocks to stay cool. A scorpion uses its claws to catch food and its stinger to sting. The sting can hurt, but only a few kinds of scorpions have a sting that is very dangerous to people. Scorpions eat bugs and can go a long time without food. Baby scorpions come from eggs and grow bigger by shedding their skin.
Dinosaur\n\nA dinosaur is a very big animal that lived a long, long time ago, before people were on Earth. Some dinosaurs were huge and ate plants, like Brachiosaurus and Apatosaurus. Others were big and ate meat, like Tyrannosaurus. Many dinosaurs walked on two legs and had long tails. They laid eggs in nests, like birds do. Some small dinosaurs had feathers and were warm-blooded. Dinosaurs are all gone now, but we find their bones in the ground. Those bones are called fossils. You can see dinosaur skeletons in museums. Birds are the living family of dinosaurs.
Saturn\n\nSaturn is a big planet far away from Earth. It is the sixth planet from the Sun. Saturn is the second biggest planet in our solar system. It has many rings around it made of ice, rocks, and dust. The rings are easy to see with a telescope. Saturn spins very fast, so a day on Saturn is only about 10 hours long. It takes Saturn 29 years to go around the Sun once. Saturn is very light and could float in water. It has many moons, more than any other planet. The biggest moon is Titan, which is bigger than the planet Mercury. Saturn has a very hot inside and strong winds that blow faster than any wind on Earth.
Hazelnut\n\nA hazelnut is a small, round nut that grows on a tree called a hazel tree. It falls off the tree when it is ready to eat. People use hazelnuts in many ways. They can grind them into a paste or make hazelnut butter. You can also find hazelnuts in chocolate treats. These nuts grow in places like Greece, Turkey, Italy, and some parts of the United States. Hazelnuts have lots of good fats and protein that help your body grow strong.
Freyja\n\nFreyja is a goddess from old Norse stories. She is the goddess of love, beauty, and war. Freyja rides in a chariot pulled by two big cats. She has a pretty necklace called Brisingamen. She also has a magic cloak made of falcon feathers that lets her fly. Freyja gets half of the heroes who die in battle. She lives in a place called Folkvang. Her tears turn into gold when they fall to the ground. Friday is named after her.
Eagle\n\nAn eagle is a very big bird that hunts other animals for food. Eagles live in many places around the world, especially in Africa and parts of Europe and Asia. They have very good eyes and can see small animals from far away. Eagles hunt during the day. They use their strong feet with sharp claws to catch food, and they use their sharp beak to tear the meat. Eagles eat meat from other animals, so they are called meat-eaters. The biggest eagle that ever lived was called Haast's eagle. It lived in New Zealand a long time ago, but now it is gone.
Pain\n\nPain is a bad feeling you get when you are hurt or sick. It tells your brain that something is wrong with your body. When you hurt your knee, nerves send a message to your brain, and your brain makes you feel pain. Pain can be short, like when you fall down, or it can last a long time. To feel better, you can rest the hurt part and put ice on it. Sometimes you need medicine to help the pain go away.
Gautama Buddha\n\nGautama Buddha was a man who lived a long time ago in a place called Nepal. He was born as a prince and had everything he wanted, but he was not happy. He left his palace to see old people, sick people, and dead people. He wanted to find out why people feel sad and hurt. He tried very hard by not eating much and sitting still for many days. Then he sat under a big tree and thought until he found the answer. He learned that people can stop feeling sad by being kind, not doing bad things, and training their minds. He taught many people about this, and they became his friends and followers. He walked around and told people how to be happy and peaceful. He said anyone can learn to be happy, not just him.
Italian language\n\nThe Italian language is the language people speak in Italy. It is also spoken in other countries like San Marino, Vatican City, and Switzerland. About 70 million people speak Italian. Many Italian words for food, like pizza and spaghetti, are used in English. Some music words, like forte and allegro, also come from Italian. Italian words can change their endings to show different meanings. Most words that are for boys or things end in -o, and most words for girls or things end in -a. Learning Italian can be tricky, but saying the words is easy.
Food industry\n\nThe food industry is all the businesses that make the food we eat. Some are small, like a family bakery. Others are big factories that make lots of food. This industry gets food from farms, animals, and fishing. It brings food to stores so you can buy it.
Mass media\n\nMass media are things like radio, TV, and the internet that tell many people news and stories. TV is used the most. It shows us news from all over the world. Radio plays music and news too. Books have old and long stories. The internet lets us look up anything we want to know. Libraries have books and music we can read and listen to.
Barcelona\n\nBarcelona is a big city in Spain, near the ocean. It is the capital of a part of Spain called Catalonia. The city has many old buildings and churches. One famous church is called Sagrada Familia, and it is still being built. Barcelona has a big port, an airport, and trains. Many people visit Barcelona every year. The city has a football team called F.C. Barcelona. In 1992, Barcelona had the Summer Olympic Games. The weather is warm, with rain mostly in spring and fall. People in Barcelona speak Catalan and Spanish. The city has museums, theaters, and a big aquarium. There is a street called La Rambla where people do shows.
Autism\n\nAutism is a way some people's brains work. It changes how a person thinks, moves, talks, and makes friends. Some people with autism like to do the same things every day, like eating the same food for breakfast. They might get upset if their routine changes. They may also move their body in the same way over and over, or be very interested in one thing, like trains or dinosaurs. Loud sounds can feel too strong for them. Every person with autism is different. Some need a lot of help, and some need only a little. There is no medicine to make autism go away, and many autistic people do not want a cure. They want people to understand that they are just different. Signs of autism often show up when a child is around two or three years old. Doctors now call it autism spectrum disorder.
Fuel\n\nFuel is something we use to make heat or energy. Most fuels are burned in fire to make things work. Cars and trucks use fuel to go. Some fuel comes from old plants and animals that lived a long time ago. That kind is called fossil fuel. It can make the air dirty when we burn it. We only have so much of it, so we need to use it carefully. Other fuel comes from plants we can grow, like corn. That kind is called renewable because we can make more of it.
Plesiosaur\n\nA plesiosaur was a big sea animal that lived a long time ago, even before dinosaurs. It had a long neck, a big body, and four flippers that helped it swim in the ocean. Plesiosaurs ate fish and other sea creatures. They swallowed stones to help crush food inside their tummies. Some plesiosaurs had short necks and big heads, and they were very good at catching big fish. Plesiosaurs are not alive today; they all went away 65 million years ago.
Dimension\n\nA dimension is a way to measure things. We use dimensions to talk about how long, how wide, and how tall something is. For example, a box has length, width, and height. Those are three dimensions. We can also use a dimension called time to say when something happens. Some things, like temperature and weight, are other kinds of dimensions. Scientists and mathematicians use dimensions to understand the world better.
Jigsaw puzzle\n\nA jigsaw puzzle is a game with many small pieces that fit together to make a picture. It is harder than a regular puzzle. Some puzzles have 300 pieces, and some have 1000 pieces. The biggest puzzle ever sold had 32,256 pieces. Puzzles for kids have bigger pieces. Some puzzles have two pictures, one on each side. There are also 3D puzzles made of wood or foam. You can play jigsaw puzzles on a computer or phone too.
Vacation\n\nA vacation is a time when you take a break from school or work. You can go to a new place with your family and have fun. Some people stay in a hotel or a camp. Others stay at home and find fun things to do nearby. That is called a staycation. Many people go on vacation during holidays when there is no school.
Female\n\nFemale is one of the two kinds of people or animals. A female human is called a woman. Women have bodies that are different from men. Women have a vagina and breasts. Women can have babies. When a woman is going to have a baby, she goes to a special doctor to stay healthy.
San Francisco\n\nSan Francisco is a city in California, in the United States. It sits between the Pacific Ocean and a big bay. The city is famous for the Golden Gate Bridge, which is a very long orange bridge. San Francisco has many steep hills and old houses that are all different colors. People there ride cable cars, which are trains that go up and down the hills. The city was started a long time ago by Spanish explorers. Later, many people came to San Francisco during the Gold Rush to look for gold. Today, lots of big companies have their main offices there. San Francisco also has a big airport called SFO.
Radish\n\nA radish is a crunchy vegetable that grows underground. People eat radishes all over the world. Radishes can be red, white, or purple. They taste a little bit spicy, like pepper. Some radishes are small and round, and some are long. You can eat them raw in a salad. The spicy taste keeps some animals from eating too many of them.
Water purification\n\nWater purification is a way to make dirty water clean. It takes out the bad stuff that can make you sick. People do this so they can drink the water safely. Clean water is also used to wash things and to make things like computer parts. Dirty water can hurt your body and also break things like pipes and machines. Many people around the world do not have clean water to drink.
Hamster\n\nA hamster is a small animal that looks a bit like a mouse. Hamsters have soft fur, a short tail, and big cheek pouches. They use these pouches to carry food back to their home. Wild hamsters live in the desert and stay underground during the day. People all over the world keep hamsters as pets. Pet hamsters need a cage with safe bedding, like wood shavings or recycled newspaper. They eat hamster food from the pet shop and can also eat small pieces of vegetables and fruit. Hamsters store food in their cheek pouches. Their teeth grow all the time, so they need wooden blocks to chew on. Most hamsters like to run on a wheel for exercise. There are different kinds of hamsters, like the Syrian hamster and the dwarf hamster.
Cloak\n\nA cloak is a big piece of cloth you wear over your clothes. It keeps you warm when it is cold or dry when it rains. You put it on and fasten it at your neck or over your shoulder. Some cloaks have a hood to cover your head. They have no sleeves for your arms. People wore cloaks a long time ago, and some still wear them today.
Peer pressure\n\nPeer pressure is when friends make you want to do what they are doing. Sometimes you might do something you would not do by yourself, just to feel like you belong. This can be good or bad. Good peer pressure helps you do nice things, like sharing or helping others. Bad peer pressure can make you do things that are not safe, like smoking or drinking. It is okay to say no if you do not want to do something.
Mexico\n\nMexico is a country in North America. It is next to the United States, Guatemala, and Belize. Mexico has big oceans on both sides: the Pacific Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico. The capital city is Mexico City, which is very big. Long ago, people called the Olmecs, Mayans, and Aztecs lived there. The Aztecs built a big city called Tenochtitlan. Then Spanish people came and took over. Later, Mexico became its own country. Now, Mexico has a president who is chosen every 6 years. Most people in Mexico speak Spanish. Many people have both Native American and Spanish families. Mexico has mountains, deserts, and rainforests. Some mountains are volcanoes, like Popocatépetl. The highest mountain is Pico de Orizaba.
Parasitism\n\nParasitism is when one small living thing lives on or inside another living thing and takes food from it. The small thing is called a parasite, and the bigger one is called the host. The parasite may hurt the host a little or a lot. Some parasites, like tapeworms, live inside people. Mosquitoes bite people and drink their blood, but they do not stay long, so they are not really parasites. Many insects, like aphids and caterpillars, eat parts of plants and are parasites of plants. There are many, many kinds of parasites all over the world.
Ounce\n\nAn ounce is a way to measure how heavy something is. It is a small amount of weight. You might see ounces on a food box or a bottle. One ounce is about as heavy as a slice of bread. There are 16 ounces in one pound.
Well\n\nA well is a deep hole in the ground that people dig to get water. Some wells are simple, like a hole with a bucket on a rope. Others have pipes and pumps to bring the water up. Many towns that are not near a lake or river get their water from wells. It is important to keep the ground near a well clean, because bad things in the ground can get into the water and make people sick. In some places, people walk a long way to get water, so charities help build wells in villages.
Hera\n\nHera is a goddess from old Greek stories. She is the queen of all the gods and lives on a high mountain called Mount Olympus. Hera is married to Zeus, the king of the gods. She takes care of women, families, and marriages. Her special things are the peacock, the pomegranate, and the cow. She also wears a crown and a veil. Hera has a mom named Rhea and a dad named Kronos. Her brothers and sisters are Zeus, Hestia, Demeter, Hades, and Poseidon. She has two daughters named Hebe and Eileithyia, and two sons named Ares and Hephaestus. Hera is very beautiful and important, but she can get very angry when Zeus likes other women. She sometimes tries to hurt those women or their children. One time she turned a woman named Io into a cow. Another time she sent snakes to kill a baby named Heracles, but the baby was so strong he killed the snakes with his hands. Later, Heracles grew up and became a hero, and Hera let him marry her daughter Hebe.
Performing arts\n\nPerforming arts are things people do on a stage for others to watch. The people who do them use their own bodies and voices. Dancing, singing, acting, and magic tricks are all performing arts. A person who does performing arts is called a performer. Performers often wear special clothes and makeup. Some performers tell funny stories to make people laugh. Others dance to music or play instruments. People go to a theater or a show to watch them.
Mont Blanc\n\nMont Blanc is a very tall mountain in the Alps. It is the highest mountain in Europe. The top of Mont Blanc is covered in snow all year long. The mountain sits on the line between France and Italy. People who like to climb mountains try to reach the top of Mont Blanc.
Hornbill\n\nA hornbill is a bird with a long, curved beak that is often bright in color. Some hornbills have a funny bump on top of their beak. They live in warm places in Africa, Asia, and some islands. The mother hornbill lays eggs inside a hole in a tree. She covers the hole with mud and poop, leaving only a tiny opening. The father hornbill brings food to her through that opening. This keeps the babies safe from snakes until they are big enough to fly.
Emergency medical services\n\nEmergency medical services help people who are very sick or hurt. They send a special car called an ambulance to where the person is. The people in the ambulance are called paramedics. They help the sick or hurt person right away and can take them to the hospital if needed. Some paramedics have a lot of training and can give strong medicine. Others have less training but can still help. In some countries, doctors also ride in the ambulance and try to fix the person at the scene. Long ago, ambulances just took people to the hospital without helping much. Now, paramedics help people before they get to the hospital.
Harmony\n\nHarmony is when you play more than one note at the same time to make a sound that is nice to hear. A single tune can be pretty, but adding other notes underneath makes it even better. In music class, children learn which notes sound good together. When a group of people sing or play instruments together, they make harmony. For example, in a choir, some people sing high and some sing low, and all the sounds mix together to make a beautiful song.
Tegucigalpa\n\nTegucigalpa is a big city in a country called Honduras. It is the capital, which means the most important city in that country. Many people live there, more than one million. The city sits on mountains, so there are hills all around. Some parts are covered with trees like pine and oak. The weather is warm, and there are two seasons: a rainy season when it rains a lot, and a dry season when it does not rain much.
Fox\n\nA fox is a small animal that looks a bit like a dog. It has pointy ears, a long nose, and a big bushy tail. Foxes run very fast. They eat small animals like mice and rabbits, and also eat berries and fruit. A mother fox is called a vixen, and a father fox is called a dog. Foxes use their bushy tail to keep warm when they sleep in cold weather. They also use their tail to talk to other foxes and to help them balance when they run. Foxes live in many places around the world, like forests and deserts. The most common fox is the red fox, which has reddish-brown fur and a white tip on its tail.
Volleyball\n\nVolleyball is a game where two teams hit a ball over a net. Each team has six players. The ball must stay in the air. If the ball hits the floor, the other team gets a point. Players can hit the ball with their hands or arms. They can only touch the ball three times before sending it over the net. The game starts with a serve. A player hits the ball from behind the back line. The other team tries to return it. Players can bump the ball with their forearms or set it with their fingertips. A spike is a hard hit down into the other side. A block is when players jump with their hands up to stop the ball. The team that wins the most points wins the game. Volleyball is played in the Olympics.
Geyser\n\nA geyser is a hot spring that shoots water and steam up into the air. It happens when water deep underground gets very hot from hot rocks near a volcano. The water turns into steam and builds up pressure. When the pressure gets strong enough, the water and steam burst out of the ground like a fountain. Geysers are not common. Most of them are in a place called Yellowstone National Park in the United States. Some are also in Iceland. Geysers do not last forever, but they can shoot water for many years.
Stonehenge\n\nStonehenge is a very old circle of big stones in England. It was built a long, long time ago, before anyone had cars or houses like we have today. The stones are huge and heavy. Some stones stand up tall, and other stones sit on top of them like a hat. No one knows for sure who built Stonehenge or why. But on the longest day of the year, the sun shines through the stones in a special way. This makes some people think it was a kind of calendar. Many people visit Stonehenge to see the big stones and wonder about the people who put them there.
Anubis\n\nAnubis is a god from ancient Egypt. He looks like a man with the head of a dog. Anubis helped take care of people after they died. He would weigh a person's heart on a scale to see if they were good. If the heart was light, the person could go to a happy place. If the heart was heavy, a monster would eat it. The old Egyptians thought Anubis was very important.
Smi\n\nThe Smi are a group of people who live in the far north of Europe, in countries like Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Russia. They are sometimes called Sami. Their home is called Spmi. There are about 80,000 to 135,000 Smi people in the world. The Smi have their own languages, and some of them can be written. Long ago, the Smi moved with reindeer herds to find food. They used reindeer for meat, milk, and clothes. They made tents and clothes from reindeer skins. Today, some Smi still take care of reindeer. But for many years, the governments tried to make the Smi stop speaking their own language and change their ways. This was hard for the Smi people. Now, the Smi work to keep their culture and language alive.
Linen\n\nLinen is a kind of cloth made from a plant called flax. People use linen to make light clothes and table covers. Linen is very old. People in Egypt made linen more than 6,000 years ago. They even used linen to wrap mummies. Today, people use cotton more because it costs less.
Gila monster\n\nA Gila monster is a lizard that lives in the desert. It has bumpy skin that looks like beads and is black, pink, orange, and yellow. It is slow and heavy for a lizard. It can grow up to two feet long. The Gila monster can bite fast and hold on tight, but it does not kill people. It eats small animals like mice, birds, and eggs. It chews its food and puts poison into it with its teeth. The Gila monster can keep food in its tail. A medicine for sick people was made from its spit.
Illustration\n\nAn illustration is a picture that helps you understand something better. It can be a drawing, a painting, or a photograph. Some illustrations make a story more fun to read. Others show you what something looks like in a book or a newspaper.
Ski jumping\n\nSki jumping is a winter sport where a person slides down a snowy hill on skis, jumps into the air, and tries to land far away. The skis are wide and long. Judges give points for how far the person jumps and how well they jump. Ski jumping is in the Winter Olympic Games. It started a long time ago in Norway. The jumper goes down a ramp, jumps up, flies through the air, and then lands on the snow.
Intimacy\n\nIntimacy is a warm, close feeling you have with someone you love. It means you feel very safe and happy together. You can have intimacy with your mom, dad, or best friend. It is about sharing special moments, like cuddling or telling secrets. Intimacy makes you feel like you belong together.
Pineapple\n\nA pineapple is a fruit that grows in warm places like South America and the Caribbean. It looks like a big pine cone with a spiky, rough skin on the outside and yellow, sweet fruit inside. The pineapple takes a very long time to grow, sometimes two or three years. It needs warm weather and cannot be kept in cold places. Pineapples have vitamin C, which helps keep you healthy, and they also have something that helps your body build strong bones. People eat pineapple fresh or in fruit salads, and it tastes sweet and a little bit sour. In some places, people put pineapples outside their homes to show they are friendly and welcome visitors.
Hunting\n\nHunting is when people or animals go out to find and kill animals for food. Long ago, people used sharp sticks called spears to hunt. Today, people mostly use guns or bows. Some people hunt animals for their fur to make warm clothes. Hunting too many animals can make them all go away, like what happened to the dodo bird. Some people do not like hunting and make rules to stop it.
Thorax\n\nThe thorax is a part of an animal's body between the head and the belly. In people and mammals, the thorax holds the ribs and bones that protect the heart and lungs. It starts at the neck and ends at a big muscle called the diaphragm. In bugs and crabs, the thorax is the middle part of the body, and the legs are attached to it.
Caspian Sea\n\nThe Caspian Sea is a very big body of salty water on Earth. It is called a sea because the water tastes salty, like the ocean. It is the biggest closed sea in the world, which means water does not flow out of it to the ocean. The Caspian Sea sits next to five countries: Russia, Azerbaijan, Iran, Turkmenistan, and Kazakhstan. More than half of the sea belongs to Iran. The water is not as salty as the big ocean, but it is still salty. Many fish live in the Caspian Sea.
Peninsula\n\nA peninsula is a piece of land that has water on three sides. It sticks out into the water like a long finger. Some countries are on peninsulas, like India. Other peninsulas are parts of countries, like Baja California in Mexico. The Arabian Peninsula is the biggest peninsula in the world.
Psychiatric hospital\n\nA psychiatric hospital is a place where people who have trouble with their feelings or thinking can stay to get help. Sometimes people choose to go there, and sometimes a doctor says they must go to keep them safe. Long ago, these places were like prisons and people were chained up. Later, a doctor named Philippe Pinel took away the chains and made them nicer. In the 1900s, new medicine helped people feel better, so many big hospitals closed. Now, people with these problems can get help in small clinics or at home.
La Paz\n\nLa Paz is a big city in Bolivia, a country in South America. It is the capital city, which means the leaders of the country work there. La Paz is very high up in the mountains, higher than any other capital city in the world. Many people live there, but another city called Santa Cruz has even more people. The city is in a place called La Paz Department.
Speed\n\nSpeed is how fast something moves. It tells you how far something goes in a certain amount of time. For example, if a car goes 100 miles in one hour, its speed is 100 miles per hour. The fastest speed in the whole world is the speed of light. Nothing can go faster than that.
Eucalyptus\n\nEucalyptus is a kind of tree that grows mostly in Australia. Many eucalyptus trees are called gum trees because they make sticky sap. The leaves smell strong and are used to make oil for coughs. Koalas eat eucalyptus leaves. The trees have special flowers that open from a little cap. The fruit is called a gumnut. Some eucalyptus trees are very tall, like the Mountain Ash. The bark can be smooth or rough. Eucalyptus trees need fire to grow new seeds. They grow back fast after a fire. People use eucalyptus wood for building and making things like the didgeridoo.
Continent\n\nA continent is a very big piece of land on Earth. Earth has seven continents: Africa, Antarctica, Asia, Europe, North America, South America, and Australia. Each continent is a home to many people, animals, and plants. Asia has the most people. Antarctica is the coldest place on Earth and is covered in ice. Continents move very slowly over time. Sometimes they bump into each other and make big mountains.
Gray\n\nGray is a color that is made by mixing black and white together. It is the color of an elephant, cement, pencil writing, and rain clouds. Gray looks like black that has been made lighter, but not as light as white.
Squid\n\nA squid is an animal that lives in the ocean. It has eight arms and two long tentacles that grab food. Squids eat other animals, not plants. They can change color to hide from bigger animals. A squid moves by sucking water in and pushing it out fast. Most squids live for only one or two years. The female squid lays eggs that look like a flower. Some squids are very big, like the giant squid. Giant squid have the biggest eyes of any animal.
Cultural heritage\n\nCultural heritage is the special things from long ago that people in a group or country keep and share. It can be old buildings, stories, songs, dances, or ways of making food. These things come from people who lived before us. We keep them to remember our past and teach them to our children.
Tofu\n\nTofu is a food made from soybeans. It is made by pressing soy milk into soft white blocks. Tofu tastes plain and can be used in many dishes. People in China, Japan, Korea, and many other countries eat tofu every day. In the United States, people also buy tofu at the store. Tofu has a lot of protein and is good for your body.
Belgium\n\nBelgium is a small country in Europe. It is next to France, Germany, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands. The capital city is Brussels. Many important groups have their homes in Brussels. About 11 million people live in Belgium. Some people speak Dutch, some speak French, and a few speak German. Belgium has a king, but the people also vote for their leaders. The country has three parts: Flanders, Wallonia, and Brussels. Belgium is known for its yummy chocolate and tasty fries.
Auto racing\n\nAuto racing is a sport where people drive cars very fast to see who wins. It started in France a long time ago. There are many kinds of auto racing. In Formula One, the cars are low and have special wings that help them go fast. Each race is in a different country. Indy Cars look like Formula One cars but race on oval tracks that only turn left. Endurance races last many hours, so drivers take turns driving. The most famous endurance race is the 24 Hours of Le Mans in France. NASCAR races use cars that look like regular cars but are made for racing. They race on oval tracks too.
Liquorice\n\nLiquorice is a plant that grows in warm places like southern Europe and parts of Asia. It is a sweet root that people use to make candy. The plant has green leaves and purple or blue flowers. It can grow as tall as a grown-up's waist. The root tastes sweet, and some people love to eat liquorice candy.
Ceiling\n\nA ceiling is the top part of a room that you see when you look up. It covers the room like a lid. The ceiling hides the floor or roof above it. Some ceilings have pretty paintings or tiles on them. The most famous painted ceiling is in a big church called the Sistine Chapel.
Ohio River\n\nThe Ohio River is a very long river in the United States. It is 981 miles long. The river starts in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. It flows past many cities like Cincinnati and Louisville. The river is so wide in some places that you can see across it for one mile. Many other rivers, like the Wabash and Tennessee, flow into the Ohio River. The Ohio River helps make the borders for five states: Ohio, Kentucky, Illinois, Indiana, and West Virginia.
Middle Ages\n\nThe Middle Ages were a very long time in Europe, about 1000 years. They happened after the big Roman Empire ended and before people started learning many new things again. Life was hard for most people. Many could not read or write. There were wars and a very bad sickness called the plague that made many people die. But some things got better over time. People started to trade goods like silk and spices along long roads. In other parts of the world, like in Muslim lands, people learned a lot about math and science. The Middle Ages ended around the time people began to explore the world by ship.
Giant planet\n\nA giant planet is a very big planet that is much larger than Earth. There are four giant planets in our Solar System: Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. Giant planets do not have a hard, rocky surface like Earth. Instead, they are made of thick gas and liquid. Jupiter and Saturn are mostly made of hydrogen and helium, which are light gases. Uranus and Neptune are made of water, methane, and ammonia, and they look blue. All giant planets have a thick atmosphere with clouds. They are very far from the Sun and are very cold. Some giant planets also have rings and many moons.
Cook Islands\n\nThe Cook Islands are a group of 15 small islands in the big ocean. They are far away in the southern part of the Pacific. About 18,000 people live there. Many people visit the islands for fun trips. The biggest island is called Rarotonga, and the main town there is Avarua. The people speak a special language called Cook Island Maori. The islands are friends with New Zealand and other countries.
Hermitage Museum\n\nThe Hermitage Museum is a very big building in St. Petersburg, Russia. It is a place where you can see old paintings and special things from long ago. The museum has six big buildings. One of them is the Winter Palace, where the Russian kings used to live. The museum started a long time ago, in 1764, when a queen named Catherine began collecting art. Now many people visit to see paintings by famous artists like Leonardo da Vinci and Rembrandt. There are also shiny jewels and old gold from faraway places. Some cats live on the museum grounds. They are called the Hermitage cats, and visitors like to see them too.
Mary, mother of Jesus\n\nMary is the mother of Jesus. She was a young woman who lived long ago in a town called Nazareth. Mary was going to marry a man named Joseph. One day, an angel named Gabriel came to Mary and told her she would have a baby boy. The angel said to name him Jesus. Mary was surprised because she was not married yet. But she said yes to God's plan. Mary and Joseph went to Bethlehem to pay a tax. There, Mary gave birth to baby Jesus in a place where animals slept. Mary loved Jesus very much. When Jesus grew up and died on a cross, Mary was there with him. After Jesus died, Mary went to his tomb and found it empty. An angel said Jesus was alive again. Many people honor Mary because she was Jesus's mother. They call her the Blessed Virgin Mary. Some people pray a special prayer called the Hail Mary to ask for her help.
Melbourne\n\nMelbourne is a big city in Australia. It is the second-biggest city in the country. Many people from all over the world live there. Melbourne has special trains called trams that run on the streets. There is a river called the Yarra River that flows through the city. Melbourne has many parks, gardens, and beaches. You can go to museums, look at art, eat food, and go shopping there. Big sports games like the Australian Open tennis happen in Melbourne. The weather can change a lot, sometimes having four seasons in one day.
Kaziranga National Park\n\nKaziranga National Park is a big park in India where many animals live. It is a special place that people protect. The park is home to most of the world's one-horned rhinoceroses. You can also find tigers, elephants, wild water buffalo, and swamp deer there. Many birds live in the park too, like pelicans and eagles. Every year, the park gets flooded when the river rises. Some parts of the park stay dry, and animals go there to be safe. People have built extra dry places to help the animals during floods.
Chisel\n\nA chisel is a sharp tool that looks like a long, flat stick with a pointy end. People hit the chisel with a hammer to cut or shape wood and stone. Artists use chisels to make statues out of big rocks. Workers also use chisels to break things apart so they can move them.
Violet (plant)\n\nA violet is a small plant with pretty flowers. Some violets are blue or purple. There is a famous poem that says "Roses are red, violets are blue." Violets can grow in gardens or in the wild. Some violets come back every year, and some only live for one year. People like to plant them because the flowers are beautiful.
Cryptography\n\nCryptography is a way to hide information so only the right people can see it. It is like a secret code. When you send a message, you change it into a secret code. The person who gets it knows how to change it back. This keeps your message safe from others. People use cryptography when they use bank cards, computer passwords, or shop on the internet. Long ago, people used simple codes like the Caesar cipher, which moves each letter in the alphabet. Today, computers make very strong codes that are hard to break.
African Great Lakes\n\nThe African Great Lakes are a group of big lakes in Africa. They are near Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, and Tanzania. The lakes are very large and deep. Many fish live in the water. People who live near the lakes use them for fishing and getting water to drink.
Uniform\n\nA uniform is a special set of clothes that a group of people wear to show they belong together. Everyone in the group wears the same thing. Soldiers wear uniforms to show their job. Nurses wear uniforms when they work in hospitals. In many countries, school children wear uniforms. This helps them feel proud of their school and makes all children look the same, whether they are rich or poor. Uniforms can also keep people safe or clean while they work.
Minotaur\n\nA minotaur is a make-believe creature from old Greek stories. It has the head and tail of a bull, but the body of a man. The minotaur lived in a big maze called a labyrinth. A hero named Theseus went into the maze and stopped the minotaur.
Red giant\n\nA red giant is a very big star that looks red. It is much bigger than our Sun. Many red giants could fit thousands of Suns inside them. Our Sun will become a red giant in about five billion years. It will get so big that it might eat up Mercury, Venus, and maybe Earth. A red giant is made when a star uses up all the hydrogen in its middle. Then the star gets bigger and cooler, and turns red or orange. After a long time, the red giant will blow away its outer parts and become a small white star called a white dwarf.
Park\n\nA park is an open place in a city or town where you can play and enjoy nature. Parks have trees, flowers, benches, and sometimes ponds or fountains. You can walk, run, ride a bike, or play on swings and slides. Some parks are very big and have picnic areas. There are also special parks called national parks that protect animals and their homes. Another kind of park is an amusement park with fun rides and shows.
Stingray\n\nA stingray is a flat fish that lives in warm, salty water. It is a cousin of the shark. Most stingrays have a long tail with a sharp, pointy sting on it. They only use the sting to protect themselves. Stingrays like to hide under the sand at the bottom of the ocean. Their eyes are on top of their body, and their mouth is on the bottom. They eat small animals like clams, crabs, and tiny fish. Some stingrays are very big, like the manta ray, and they do not have a sting. Baby stingrays grow inside their mother and are born alive. A mother stingray can have five to thirteen babies at once.
Crete\n\nCrete is a big island in Greece. It is in the warm sea. The ground is good for growing food. Long ago, people called Minoans lived there. They built a big palace called Knossos. The palace had many rooms and was like a maze. People used string to find their way out. The Minoans believed a monster called the Minotaur lived in the maze. The Minotaur was half bull and half man. The Minoans also liked games, music, and pretty clothes. Women wore long skirts and jewelry. Men wore small belts. They ate fish, cheese, nuts, and honey. They drank goat milk. Later, other people from Greece took over the island.
Firefly\n\nA firefly is a kind of beetle that can make its own light. It is an insect with three body parts and six legs. Fireflies are brown or black with yellow and red spots. They live in warm, wet places like marshes, ponds, and rain forests. Some also live in dry places like backyards and meadows. Fireflies use their light to talk to each other. The adults flash light to find a friend. The babies glow to tell animals that they do not taste good. Many animals do not like to eat firefly babies.
Pixel\n\nA pixel is one tiny dot in a picture on a computer screen. Each pixel is a small square. Every pixel has a color, and all the pixels together make the whole picture. The color of a pixel is made by mixing red, green, and blue light. The word "pixel" comes from "picture element." It was first used a long time ago to talk about the tiny dots that make up pictures on screens.
Shinkansen\n\nThe Shinkansen is a very fast train in Japan. People also call it the "Bullet Train" because it goes as fast as a bullet. The first Shinkansen started running in 1964, just in time for the Tokyo Olympics. It was the first high-speed train in the whole world. The Shinkansen can go up to 300 kilometers per hour, which is faster than a car on a highway. The trains have a long, pointy nose that helps them cut through the air. They run on special tracks that are different from old train tracks. The Shinkansen is very safe and almost never has accidents. It is also very punctual, which means it arrives almost exactly on time. People ride the Shinkansen to travel between cities in Japan.
Tapir\n\nA tapir is a big animal with a round body and short tail. It has a long nose that looks like a little trunk. Tapirs have four toes on their front feet and three toes on their back feet. Their fur can be brown, gray, or black. Baby tapirs have brown fur with light stripes and spots to help them hide. Tapirs cannot see very well, but they have good ears and a great nose for smelling. They are very good swimmers. Tapirs live in forests near water in South America, Central America, and Southeast Asia. They come out at night to eat leaves, fruit, and nuts. A mother tapir has one baby at a time, and the baby stays with her for about one year.
Volt\n\nA volt is a way to measure how much push electricity has. Think of it like water pressure in a hose. More volts mean more push, so the electricity can move faster. A battery has volts inside it to make things like toys and lights work. The volt is named after a man named Alessandro Volta, who made the first battery a long time ago.
Marseille\n\nMarseille is a big city in the south of France. It is the second biggest city in France. Many people live there. Marseille has a very big port where ships come and go. It is one of the most important ports in the Mediterranean Sea. The city is very old. It was started a long, long time ago by Greek sailors. The weather in Marseille is hot and sunny in summer. The winters are mild and not too cold.
Steam\n\nSteam is water that has turned into a gas. When water gets very hot, it changes into steam. You cannot see real steam because it is invisible. The white mist you see above a boiling pot is tiny water drops, not steam. Steam is very hot and can push things. Long ago, people used steam to make trains and machines move. Some people use steam to cook food, like in a pressure cooker.
Carpenter\n\nA carpenter is a person who works with wood. They can build houses, make cabinets, or create toys. Some carpenters build big things like the frame of a house. Other carpenters make pretty things like furniture or wooden toys. Carpenters use tools like hammers and saws to cut and shape wood. They learn new ways to work with wood all the time.
Walrus\n\nA walrus is a big animal that lives in the cold ocean near the North Pole. It has two long teeth that stick out of its mouth, called tusks. The walrus uses its tusks to pull itself up onto the ice and to protect itself from polar bears. Walruses are very heavy and have thick fat to keep them warm in the icy water. They are usually brown, but their skin can turn pink when they get warm. Walruses can sleep in the water with a special air pouch under their throat that helps them float.
Cider\n\nCider is a drink made from fruit juice, most often from apples. In some places, cider has alcohol in it, and grown-ups drink it. In the United States and Canada, people drink a special kind of cider around Halloween and Thanksgiving. This cider is thick and is often heated up with cinnamon before drinking. Cider is made from apples that are squeezed to get the juice. The juice is then left to sit for a while, which changes the taste. Cider can be found in many countries, like France and the United Kingdom. Some people use cider in cooking, too.
Sarajevo\n\nSarajevo is a city in Europe. It is the capital of a country called Bosnia and Herzegovina. Many people live there, and they come from different cultures. In Sarajevo, you can see mosques, synagogues, and churches. A long time ago, a very important man named Franz Ferdinand was killed in Sarajevo, and that started a big war. The city was hurt in another war, but now it is fixed and looks nice again.
Lake Victoria\n\nLake Victoria is a very big lake in Africa. It is the biggest lake in Africa and the second biggest freshwater lake in the whole world. Three countries touch the lake: Tanzania, Uganda, and Kenya. The lake is so big that you cannot see the other side. A river called the White Nile starts from this lake. The lake was named after a queen named Victoria.
Fjord\n\nA fjord is a narrow part of the sea with very steep sides. It is like a long, skinny gulf. Long ago, big heavy sheets of ice called glaciers moved over the land and carved out the fjord. When the ice melted, the sea filled the space. Fjords are found in places like Norway, Canada, and New Zealand. Many cities near fjords are ports where big boats come and go.
Computer hardware\n\nComputer hardware is the parts of a computer that you can touch. The screen, keyboard, mouse, and the box with the computer's brain inside are all hardware. Hardware needs software to tell it what to do.
Saddle\n\nA saddle is a seat for a person riding an animal's back. A strap called a girth holds it on. Most saddles are made for horses, but some are made for camels. The first saddles were just soft pads with a strap. Today, there are two main kinds: English saddles and Western saddles. English saddles are light and used for jumping and showing. Western saddles have a horn on the front and are used for working with cows and rodeo sports. Each saddle helps the rider do a different job.
Business\n\nA business is a place where people work together to make things or help others. People buy what the business makes. The person who starts the business is called the owner. The owner hires workers to help. A business can be big or small. A small business might be a barber shop with just one person. A big business, like Microsoft, has many workers all over the world. Some businesses stay in one place, like a store or a farm. Other workers, like carpenters, go to different places to do their job. They bring their tools in a truck. The word "business" comes from the word "busy," which means doing things.
Religion of ancient Egypt\n\nThe religion of ancient Egypt is what people in Egypt believed about gods and the world a long, long time ago. They believed in many gods. Some gods looked like people, and some looked like animals. The sun god was very important. They thought the world began with water and darkness. The first god came from the water and made other gods. They believed that after people die, their soul goes to a special place. To get ready for that, they wrapped the dead body in cloth and put it in a box called a coffin. This is called mummification. They also put spells and pictures in the tomb to help the dead person. They thought the heart would be weighed to see if the person was good. If the heart was light, the person could live happily after death. If the heart was heavy, a monster would eat it. For a short time, one pharaoh named Akhenaten said people should only worship one god, the sun disk Aten. But after he died, people went back to believing in many gods. Later, most Egyptians became Christian or Muslim.
West Lake\n\nWest Lake is a big lake in the middle of a city called Hangzhou. The water in the lake is fresh, not salty. Many people visit West Lake because it is very pretty. Around the lake there are old temples and gardens. You can see green trees and hills near the water. The lake looks beautiful in the morning and at night.
Weathering\n\nWeathering is when rocks break down into smaller pieces. This happens because of wind, rain, ice, and the sun. Wind blows sand against rocks and wears them down. Rain hits rocks and slowly makes them smaller. The sun heats rocks during the day, and at night they cool down. This makes cracks in the rocks. Water can get into the cracks and freeze, which makes the cracks bigger. Ice can also grind rocks like sandpaper. Weathering is different from erosion, which is when rocks are moved away by water or wind.
Bath\n\nA bath is a big tub you can sit in to wash your body. It is usually in the bathroom. People fill it with warm water and sometimes add nice smells, oils, or salts to make it feel good. Long ago, the Romans built big rooms with baths where people could relax and talk to friends. Some rich people even had their own baths at home.
Mumps\n\nMumps is a sickness that only people can get. It makes you have a fever and a headache. Your cheeks can get big and puffy. Your throat might hurt. There is a shot called MMR that stops you from getting mumps.
Man\n\nA man is a grown-up male person. He is the opposite of a woman. A boy is a male child, and when he grows up, he becomes a man. Men are usually taller than women. Men have different body parts than women, like a deeper voice and hair on their face. Some people are born with a girl's body but feel they are a man inside, and they can grow up to be a man too.
Empire State Building\n\nThe Empire State Building is a very tall building in New York City. It has 102 floors and is one of the most famous buildings in the world. It was the tallest building in the world when it opened in 1931. People can go to the 86th floor and look out at the city from high above. The building lights up at night with many colors. A long time ago, a plane crashed into it in the fog, but the building was not badly hurt.
Inch\n\nAn inch is a way to measure how long something is. It is a little bit shorter than your thumb from the first knuckle to the tip. There are 12 inches in one foot. People in the United States and the United Kingdom use inches to measure things like how tall a person is or how long a table is. Most other countries use centimeters instead. One inch is the same as two and a half centimeters.
Western Sahara\n\nWestern Sahara is a place in north Africa. It is next to Morocco, Algeria, Mauritania, and the Atlantic Ocean. Most of it is flat desert with lots of sand. The biggest city is Layoune, where more than half the people live. Not many people live there because it is very dry. Two groups say they are in charge of this land: Morocco and a group called the Polisario Front. Many people from the Polisario Front live in camps in Algeria. Other countries do not agree on who should rule Western Sahara.
Star cluster\n\nA star cluster is a big group of stars that stay close together in the sky. The stars in a cluster are all about the same age because they were born at the same time. Some star clusters are so bright that you can see them with just your eyes, like the Pleiades group. Other star clusters have very big, hot blue stars that give off a lot of light. These clusters are different from constellations, which are just patterns we make up by connecting stars that are not really close to each other.
Anise\n\nAnise is a plant that grows flowers. People use its seeds to make food taste like black licorice. The seeds are small and brown. Long ago, people used anise to make a special drink called claret.
Wrestling\n\nWrestling is a game where two people try to push each other to the ground. The people who do this are called wrestlers. They are not allowed to hit or punch. Instead, they use their arms and legs to pull, lift, and tip the other person over. Once on the ground, they try to hold the other person down on their back. Many people who learn wrestling also do other fighting sports.
Mekong River\n\nThe Mekong River is a very long river in Asia. It starts high up in the mountains of Tibet and flows through many countries: China, Burma, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, and Vietnam. At the end, it goes into the sea. The river is home to many kinds of fish, river dolphins, crocodiles, and otters. People catch fish from the river for food. Boats also travel on the river to move things from place to place.
Panama\n\nPanama is a country in South America. It is famous for the Panama Canal, which is a big water path that lets ships go from one ocean to another. Panama is between the Caribbean Sea and the Pacific Ocean. It has many islands and good harbors for boats. Most people in Panama are Catholic. The country uses money called the balboa, but also uses US dollars. In 2022, Panama made a law that lets people use a special kind of computer money called bitcoin.
Legislature\n\nA legislature is a group of people who make laws. They talk about new laws and vote on them. In many places, the legislature is called a Parliament or Congress. Some legislatures have two groups of people who work together. Other places have just one group. Cities and towns also have groups like this, and they are called councils.
Chimney\n\nA chimney is a tall tube on a house or building. It lets smoke go up and out into the sky. Smoke comes from a fire inside, like in a fireplace or a stove. The chimney is straight up so the smoke can float away easily. Some chimneys are on trains and ships too. A tall chimney helps keep the air clean around the house.
Wheat\n\nWheat is a plant that people grow for food. It is a kind of grass with long, thin leaves and hollow stems. The top part of the plant has many tiny flowers that turn into seeds. Those seeds are called grains. People grind the grains into flour to make bread, cookies, cakes, and pasta. Wheat is grown all over the world. Every year, farmers pick a very large amount of wheat. It is one of the most important foods for people.
Mount Tai\n\nMount Tai is a very tall mountain in China. It is in a place called Shandong. Many people think it is a special mountain. Long ago, people believed a god named Cangdi lived on the mountain. There is a big party called Feng Shan that happens on the mountain.
United States\n\nThe United States is a big country in North America. It has 50 states. The capital is Washington, D.C. The biggest city is New York. Many people live there. The country is very big and has many kinds of land. There are high mountains, flat plains, and warm beaches. Some places are very cold and some are very hot. The United States has many animals and plants. People from all over the world live there. A long time ago, people came from other countries to live in the United States. The country has a special day called Independence Day on July 4. On that day, people celebrate with fireworks and parades.
Black\n\nBlack is a very dark color. It is the opposite of white. You can make black by mixing many different paint colors together. Black can look scary or strong. Some people think black is a brave color. Black is used in fancy clothes and fast cars. Many things in the world are black, like a black cat or a black crayon.
Chile\n\nChile is a country on the south-western side of South America. Most people there speak Spanish. Chile is the longest country on earth. It has a very dry desert in the north called the Atacama Desert. The middle part of Chile is good for growing plants. Many people live in the middle part, near the cities of Santiago and Valparaíso. Chile has mountains called the Andes on its eastern side. The country has many animals like the puma, guanaco, and pudu deer. There are also penguins and whales near the coast. Chile's national flower is the copihue, a red bell-shaped flower. People in Chile love soccer and tennis. They also enjoy rodeo and skiing. The money used in Chile is called the peso.
Petra\n\nPetra is a very old city in a country called Jordan. It is built inside mountains made of red and pink rock. Long, long ago, a group of people called the Nabataeans lived there. They carved houses, temples, and tombs right into the rock walls. To get to Petra, you walk through a narrow canyon with tall rock walls on both sides. At the end, you see a beautiful building called the Treasury, which is carved into the rock. Today, many people visit Petra to see the amazing rock buildings. It is a special place that the world wants to keep safe.
Adolescence\n\nAdolescence is the time when a child grows up to become an adult. It starts around age 10 and lasts until about age 25. During this time, your body changes a lot. You get taller, your voice may change, and hair grows in new places. Your brain also keeps growing and learning new things. You may feel many different feelings, like being shy or excited. You start to want to do things on your own, but you still need help from your parents. Many kids all over the world are going through this same time of change.
One Thousand and One Nights\n\nOne Thousand and One Nights is a big book of old stories. The stories come from places like Arabia, Persia, India, and China. A long time ago, people put all these stories together in one book. Some of the stories are about magic, kings, and faraway lands. One famous story is about a man named Sinbad who goes on many adventures on a ship.
Flatfish\n\nA flatfish is a fish that is very flat. It lives on the bottom of the ocean. Both of its eyes are on the same side of its head. This helps it hide in the sand. It can change its color to match the sand or rocks. Some flatfish are called flounder, sole, turbot, plaice, and halibut. People catch them for food. Baby flatfish start with one eye on each side, but as they grow, one eye moves to the other side.
Column\n\nA column is a tall, straight piece that holds up a building. It can be made of one big piece or many pieces put together. Columns help hold up the roof or the top part of a wall. Long ago, people in Egypt used stone columns to build strong buildings.
Inheritance\n\nInheritance is when someone dies and gives their things to their family. The things can be money, a house, or a toy. Sometimes a king gives his kingdom to his son. The person who gets the things is called an heir. A girl who gets things is called an heiress. People write down who gets what in a paper called a will. Sometimes the family has to pay a tax on the things they get.
Album\n\nAn album is a group of songs put together by a musician. You can buy an album in a store or listen to it on a computer. Long ago, albums were big black round discs called records. Now albums are often on small shiny discs called CDs. Some albums are made in a studio, and some are recorded when the musician plays in front of people. Each album has tracks, and each track is one song.
Scandinavia\n\nScandinavia is a group of countries in the north part of Europe. It includes Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. Some people also think Finland and Iceland are part of it. The people in these countries speak languages that are a lot alike. Long ago, the Vikings lived in Scandinavia. They were strong people who sailed in big boats and traveled to faraway lands. Today, Scandinavia has big forests, mountains, and many lakes. The far north is called Lapland, where some people still take care of reindeer.
Parrot\n\nA parrot is a colorful bird that lives in warm places like rainforests. Parrots have strong, curved beaks to crack open nuts and seeds. They have two toes pointing forward and two pointing back, which helps them climb trees. Many parrots can learn to copy sounds, even human words. Some parrots live for a very long time, up to 80 years. People keep parrots as pets because they are smart and have bright feathers.
Colosseum\n\nThe Colosseum is a very big old building in Rome, Italy. It is shaped like a big oval and made of stone. Long ago, people went there to watch fights and shows. Gladiators fought each other and wild animals. Sometimes the floor was filled with water for pretend sea battles. The Colosseum could hold 50,000 people. It was free to go in. Now the Colosseum is old and broken in some places because of earthquakes. Many people visit it every year to see how big and amazing it is.
Gunpowder\n\nGunpowder is a special mix of powders that burns very fast and makes gas. The gas pushes out hard. In a gun, the push makes a bullet fly out fast. A long time ago, people in China made gunpowder by accident. They were trying to make a drink that would let people live forever. But they made gunpowder instead. They called it "fire medicine" because it burned so easily. Later, people used gunpowder to make rockets, bombs, and guns.
Lunch\n\nLunch is a meal that you eat in the middle of the day, after breakfast and before dinner. You can have cold food like bread and fruit, or hot food like a big meal. Many people eat lunch with their friends at school or work. Some people bring lunch from home in a lunchbox or a paper bag. You can also buy lunch at a restaurant. In some places, lunch is the biggest meal of the day.
Alder\n\nAn alder is a kind of tree or bush. There are about 30 different kinds of alder. Most alders are not very big. They have leaves that fall off in winter. Alders grow in many places around the world, often in wet ground. The leaves have edges that look like little teeth. In spring, alders have long hanging flowers that let the wind carry their dust to make seeds. The seeds grow inside small round cones that turn brown in fall. Bees like alder trees very much, especially in spring. People also use alder wood to make charcoal for cooking.
Aviation\n\nAviation is about flying in the sky using a machine like an airplane. People use aviation to travel to faraway places and to fly in the military. A long time ago, people made kites and hot air balloons to fly. Later, the Wright brothers made the first airplane that could fly. Now, big airplanes carry many people all over the world.
Satellite navigation\n\nA satellite navigation is a way to find exactly where you are on Earth. It uses special machines in space called satellites. These satellites send signals down to a small box in a car or a phone. The box can tell you how far you are from each satellite. Then it knows your exact spot on the ground. This helps people drive to new places without getting lost. The most famous system is called GPS, and it was made by the United States. Other countries like Russia, China, India, and Europe have their own satellite navigation systems too.
Cape of Good Hope\n\nThe Cape of Good Hope is a special place near the bottom of Africa. It is where two big oceans meet: the Atlantic Ocean and the Indian Ocean. Many ships sail past it on their way to other countries. The Cape is part of a park in South Africa. A long time ago, a man from Portugal saw it first and called it the 'Cape of Storms'.
Hope\n\nHope is a good feeling you have when you want something nice to happen. It is like believing that something you wish for might come true. When you hope, you feel happy and look forward to the future.
Terrier\n\nA terrier is a kind of dog that is small and very active. Terriers love to dig in the dirt because they were made to hunt little animals that live underground. They are brave and not scared of much. Some terriers have stiff, wiry fur that feels rough. They do not always get along with other dogs. There are many types of terriers, like the Scottie and the Cairn.
Herring\n\nA herring is a small fish that lives in the ocean. There are many kinds of herring. They often swim together in big groups, called a school. This keeps them safe from bigger fish. People can eat herring. Sometimes it is smoked or pickled.
Soybean\n\nA soybean is a plant that grows beans. It comes from Eastern Asia. The plant can be short or as tall as a grown-up. It lives for only one year. People eat the beans or make them into oil, sauce, milk, flour, and tofu. These foods have a lot of protein, which helps your body grow. Some people who do not eat meat like soy foods. You can also make fuel from soybeans. In old China, soybeans were a very special food.
Play (activity)\n\nPlay is something fun you do because you want to. Kids play a lot, but grown-ups and animals play too. Play can be running around, pretending, or playing games with rules. When animals play, they learn how to be strong and get along with others. Play helps you learn new things and have fun with friends.
Crime\n\nA crime is something a person does that is against the rules of a country. A person who does a crime is called a criminal. Things like hurting someone, taking something that is not yours, or selling bad things are crimes. Police try to stop crimes and find criminals. When police think someone did a crime, they put that person in jail. Then a judge decides if the person really did it. If yes, the person may have to pay money or stay in jail.
Word processor\n\nA word processor is a computer program that helps you write and change words on a screen. You can make letters big or small, add colors, and put pictures next to your words. It can count how many words you wrote, check for mistakes, and even read your writing out loud. Many people use it to make stories, school papers, or fun cards.
Bullying\n\nBullying is when someone hurts or scares another person on purpose. The person who does this is called a bully. Bullying can be hitting, saying mean things, or leaving someone out on purpose. It can happen at school, at home, or on the computer. If you see bullying, you can help by telling a grown-up you trust. It is not okay to bully, and there are rules to stop it.
Parsnip\n\nA parsnip is a vegetable that grows underground. It looks like a white carrot and has a long, thick root. The outside and inside are cream-colored. Parsnips taste sweet, especially after cold winter weather. People have eaten them for a very long time, even the Romans. Before sugar came to Europe, people used parsnips to make food sweet. Parsnips are cousins of carrots and parsley.
Czech Republic\n\nThe Czech Republic is a country in the middle of Europe. Its biggest city is Prague. People there speak Czech. The country has no ocean. It is next to Germany, Austria, Slovakia, and Poland. The money used is called the Czech crown. The Czech Republic has mountains and forests. There are four big parks where animals and plants are protected. Many people in the Czech Republic do not go to church.
Republic\n\nA republic is a country where the people choose their leader by voting. There is no king or queen. The leader is called a president. People vote for the president to make rules and take care of the country. The United States and India are republics. A long time ago, the Romans started the first republic. In a republic, the people are in charge, not a king.
Earth's crust\n\nThe Earth's crust is the hard outer layer of our planet. It is like a thin shell around the Earth. The crust is made of rocks. There are two kinds of crust: one under the land and one under the ocean. The crust is the coldest part of the Earth because it touches the air. Deep down, the crust gets hotter. The crust moves very slowly in big pieces called plates. These plates can push up mountains or pull apart the ground.
Spain\n\nSpain is a country in Europe. It is next to France and Portugal. The people of Spain are called Spaniards. They speak Spanish. Many people in Spain are Catholic. The king of Spain is Felipe VI. The capital city is Madrid. Spain has mountains called the Pyrenees. Spain is known for flamenco, which is a kind of dance and music. Long ago, Spain had a big empire with many lands far away. Now Spain is a modern country and part of the European Union.
Weevil\n\nA weevil is a small bug that looks like a beetle. It has a long nose at the front of its head, like a tiny trunk. Weevils eat plants. Some weevils are pests because they hurt the plants people grow. The boll weevil is a famous weevil that ruins cotton plants. Another weevil, the maize weevil, eats grains like rice, wheat, and oats. There are many, many kinds of weevils all over the world.
City block\n\nA city block is a group of houses that are close together, with roads or paths around them. The houses touch each other, so they make a closed shape. In the suburbs, houses have more space and do not touch. City blocks have been around for a very long time, since the Middle Ages. Some cities are planned with blocks in a grid, like a checkerboard. People use city blocks to count how many people live in an area.
Cue sports\n\nCue sports are games played on a table with balls. The table has soft sides called cushions and a cloth cover. People use long sticks called cues to hit a white ball into other balls. In some games, you try to knock balls into holes called pockets. In other games, you try to hit one ball into another. There are many kinds of cue sports, like pool, billiards, and snooker.
Hieroglyph\n\nHieroglyphs are a way of writing that uses pictures to stand for sounds and words. Long ago, people in Egypt used these picture letters. They carved them on walls, tombs, and monuments. There were about 700 or 800 different pictures. They wrote from right to left and from top to bottom. Only important people like nobles and priests knew how to write them. After many years, people forgot how to read hieroglyphs. Then a big stone called the Rosetta Stone helped a man named Champollion figure out how to read them again.
Opinion\n\nAn opinion is what you think about something. When someone asks, "What is your opinion?" they want to know what you think. You can start your answer with "In my opinion..." or "I think..." Sometimes people ask many people what they think to find out if something is good or bad. An opinion is different from a fact. A fact is something that is true and can be proven. An opinion might be true or not.
Neanderthal\n\nNeanderthals were a kind of early human that lived a long time ago. They were shorter and much stronger than people today, with thick bones and big muscles. Neanderthals had larger brains than we do, so they were smart. They made stone tools and hunted big animals like bison and mammoths. They lived in caves and took care of sick or hurt family members. Neanderthals also buried their dead and maybe made music with a flute. They died out about 40,000 years ago.
Krishna River\n\nThe Krishna River is a very long river in India. It is the fifth longest river in the whole country. The river brings water to help farmers grow food in four states: Telangana, Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Andhra Pradesh. Many smaller rivers flow into the Krishna River.
Francis of Assisi\n\nFrancis of Assisi was a man who loved God and animals very much. He lived a long time ago in a place called Italy. He wore simple clothes and helped sick people. He started a group called the Franciscans, where people promised to be poor and kind. There is a story that Francis talked to a big wolf and made it stop scaring a village. Today, many people remember him on October 4 by bringing their pets to church for a special blessing.
Domestic sheep\n\nA domestic sheep is a furry animal that lives on a farm. A farmer takes care of the sheep. A female sheep is called a ewe. A male sheep is called a ram. A baby sheep is called a lamb. Sheep have thick wool on their bodies. People cut the wool off and use it to make warm clothes like sweaters and socks. Sheep also give us meat to eat. A group of sheep is called a flock. Sheep like to stay together and follow each other. The most famous sheep was Dolly the Sheep. She was the first animal that was made to be exactly the same as another sheep. That is called a clone.
Secondary school\n\nSecondary school is a place where older kids go to learn after they finish primary school. In some places it is called middle school or high school. Kids start secondary school when they are about 11 or 12 years old. They go to secondary school for a few years, until they are 16 or 18. In secondary school, kids learn many subjects and move up a grade each year. When they finish, they may take a big test. After secondary school, some kids go to college or university, and some get a job.
Manioc\n\nManioc is a tall plant with big green leaves. It grows in hot, wet places like Africa, South America, and Asia. People grow it for its big white root, which is a food for many people. The root is long and white, about as wide as a big carrot. You must cook the root before eating it, because it has a poison inside. Cooking makes it safe to eat. People boil, fry, or bake the root. They use it to make cakes, bread, and a soft food called fufu. The root can also be made into flour and tapioca. Even the leaves can be eaten as a vegetable. Manioc is easy to grow and needs little care.
Barcode\n\nA barcode is a way to put numbers on things so a computer can read them. The first barcodes used black lines and white spaces. A machine called a scanner shines a light on the barcode and reads the lines. Barcodes are on almost everything you buy at the store. The first thing with a barcode was a pack of gum in 1974. There are also square barcodes called QR codes. You can scan a QR code with a phone to go to a website or see a special message. Barcodes help stores know what you are buying and how much it costs.
Association football\n\nAssociation football is a sport played by two teams. Each team has 11 players. One player is the goalkeeper, who can touch the ball with hands. The other players try to kick the ball into the other team's goal. The team that scores more goals wins. The game lasts 90 minutes with a break in the middle. People all over the world love to play and watch this sport. It is also called soccer in some countries.
Division (mathematics)\n\nDivision is a way to share things equally. If you have 6 cookies and 3 friends, division tells you each friend gets 2 cookies. The number you share is called the dividend, the number you share with is the divisor, and the answer is the quotient. Sometimes there are leftovers, called the remainder. Division is the opposite of multiplication. You can write division with a slash (/) or a line between the numbers. You cannot divide by zero because it does not make sense.
Arcturus\n\nArcturus is a big, bright star in the sky. It is one of the brightest stars we can see at night. Arcturus is far away, but it is closer than many other stars. It is a red giant star, which means it is very big and red. Arcturus is older than our Sun and will keep growing bigger.
Brazil\n\nBrazil is a big country in South America. It is the fifth biggest country in the world. Many people live there, about 212 million. The capital city is Brasília. People in Brazil speak Portuguese, which is different from Spanish. Brazil has the biggest rainforest in the world, called the Amazon Rainforest. The Amazon River flows through Brazil. It is the second longest river in the world. Brazil is known for soccer and has held big sports events like the World Cup and the Summer Olympics. The name Brazil comes from a tree called brazilwood.
Tropic of Cancer\n\nThe Tropic of Cancer is an imaginary line around the middle of the Earth. It is north of the middle line called the Equator. Once a year, in June, the sun shines straight down on this line. North of this line, the sun never shines straight down.
Hay\n\nHay is grass and other plants that people cut, dry, and collect. It is stored in piles called haystacks or tied into blocks called bales. Bales can be round or square. Hay is food for animals like horses, cows, goats, donkeys, and rabbits. Farmers give hay to animals in winter when there is no fresh grass to eat. Hay is different from straw. Hay is made from leafy plants and is good for animals to eat. Straw comes from grain stems and is used for animal bedding.
Pop art\n\nPop art is a kind of art that started a long time ago, in the 1950s and 1960s. Artists like Andy Warhol and Roy Lichtenstein made pop art. They used pictures from things people see every day, like ads in magazines, comic books, and food boxes. Pop art looks simple and bright, with bold black lines and flat colors, just like a comic book. The artists wanted to show that everyday things can be art too.
Hermes\n\nHermes is a god from old stories called Greek myths. He is the messenger of the gods. He helps travelers and shepherds. Hermes has a special stick with two snakes wrapped around it. He is very clever. On his first day, he made a musical instrument from a tortoise shell. He once took his brother's cows and burned them as a gift to the gods.
Activism\n\nActivism is when people work together to make something better or stop something bad. They might ask the government to change a rule or ask people to do things differently. Sometimes activists hold big meetings, walk in the street together, or stop working to show they care. Some activists make art on walls to share their message. That is called artivism.
Gun dog\n\nA gun dog is a kind of dog that helps people who hunt. These dogs find birds and other animals for the hunter. Some gun dogs point their nose at the animal to show where it is. Some gun dogs scare the animal out of its hiding spot. Other gun dogs bring back the animal after it is caught. Popular gun dogs are spaniels, golden retrievers, and labradors.
Ice shelf\n\nAn ice shelf is a big, flat piece of ice. It is like a giant frozen platform. An ice shelf forms where a big river of ice called a glacier meets the ocean. Some ice shelves float on top of the water. The biggest ice shelves are in a very cold place called Antarctica. They are very thick and can be as tall as a building.
Vicua\n\nA vicuña is a small wild animal that lives in the mountains of South America. It has soft, wooly fur that is light brown or reddish on top and white on its belly and legs. Its neck and legs are long and skinny, and its ears are small and pointy. The vicuña eats tough grass, and its front teeth keep growing all the time. It lives high up in the Andes mountains in countries like Peru, Bolivia, Argentina, and Chile.
Zoology\n\nZoology is the study of animals. Scientists who study animals are called zoologists. They learn about how animals look, how they live, and where they come from. Zoologists work in zoos, museums, and schools. They watch animals to see what they do. They also look at old bones to learn about animals that lived long ago.
Prescription\n\nA prescription is a note from a doctor. It tells you what medicine to take. Some medicines are very strong and you can only get them with a prescription. You cannot buy them at a store like candy. The doctor can send the prescription to the pharmacy by computer now. That is faster and helps stop mistakes. It is important to ask the pharmacist or read the paper that comes with the medicine to learn about it.
Lisbon\n\nLisbon is a big city in Portugal. It is the capital city, which means it is the most important city in the country. Many people live there. Lisbon sits next to a big river called the Tagus River. The weather is nice and sunny most of the year. There are pretty beaches close to the city. You can ride yellow trams that go up and down the hills. The trams are old and fun to ride. There are also trains under the ground called the Metro. Lisbon has many old buildings and places to see.
Duck\n\nA duck is a bird that lives in water. Ducks have short necks and are smaller than swans and geese. They can be black, brown, or gray. A baby duck is called a duckling, and a male duck is called a drake. Ducks eat plants and tiny animals from the water. They use their beak to strain food from the water. Many ducks fly to warm places in winter. People sometimes keep ducks as pets or for their eggs and meat.
Clone\n\nA clone is a living thing that is exactly the same as another living thing. Some animals can make clones by themselves. People can also make clones in a lab. The first animal clone was a sheep named Dolly. Human twins that look the same are natural clones. Even though clones start out the same, they can change a little as they grow up.
Barbados\n\nBarbados is an island country in the Atlantic Ocean. Its capital city is Bridgetown. People there speak English. Many tourists visit Barbados every year because it has beautiful beaches with clear water. The island is outside the main hurricane belt. Barbados makes rum. Cricket is the national sport, and famous players like Sir Garfield Sobers come from there. The singer Rihanna is also from Barbados. The country became a republic in 2021, which means it no longer has a king or queen as its leader.
Pond\n\nA pond is a small body of water that is smaller than a lake. Many animals live in or near a pond, such as ducks, turtles, swans, small fish, and frogs. In most ponds, sunlight can reach the bottom. Some ponds do not last all year long and are called temporary ponds. These ponds do not have fish. Some ponds are getting dirty because of people. Unlike rivers, ponds stay in one place and do not flow.
Skill\n\nA skill is something you learn to do well. You get better at a skill by practicing a lot. Some skills use your body, like kicking a ball or drawing a picture. Other skills use your brain, like counting or remembering things. When you first learn a skill, you might make mistakes. But if you keep trying, you get faster and better. After a lot of practice, you can do the skill without thinking hard. People who are very good at something, like a soccer player or a piano player, practice on purpose to get better. They work on the parts that are hard for them. Skills can be used in different places, like at school or at home. Some skills are easy to use in new ways, but others are not. Teachers help you learn new skills so you can do many things well.
Ethics\n\nEthics is about learning what is good and what is bad. It helps people decide how to act. Most people think that hurting others is bad. Ethics also helps us think about how to be fair to each other. Many countries make rules based on these ideas.
Skull\n\nA skull is the set of bones that make up your head. It holds your face in place and keeps your brain safe inside. The skull also keeps your eyes and ears at the right distance so you can see and hear well. In some animals, the skull has horns on top. The human skull is made of many flat bones that are joined together. An adult has 28 bones in the skull.
Leviathan\n\nLeviathan is a very big sea monster from old stories. In the Bible, it is a huge creature that lives in the water. Some people think of it as a giant whale. The word 'Leviathan' now means any large animal that lives in the ocean.
Cream\n\nCream is the thick, fatty part of milk. It is yellow-white and tastes rich. People put cream in coffee to make it taste softer. Cream can also be used to make yummy sauces for pasta. When you shake cream for a long time, it turns into butter.
Songbird\n\nA songbird is a kind of bird that can sing beautiful songs. There are many different kinds of songbirds all over the world. They use their songs to tell other birds where they are and to find a friend. Some songbirds sing more songs than others, and girl birds like the ones that sing the most. Songbirds also make short sounds to warn about danger or to keep in touch with their family. Most birds can make sounds, but only songbirds can sing long, pretty songs.
Berry\n\nA berry is a small, soft fruit that you can eat. Many berries are sweet and bright in color. They have tiny seeds inside. Some berries are red, blue, or purple. You can eat berries like strawberries, blueberries, and raspberries. Birds and other animals like to eat berries too. That helps the seeds spread to new places so new plants can grow.
Acrobatics\n\nAcrobatics is a way of moving your body in special ways. A person who does acrobatics is called an acrobat. Acrobats can do flips, handstands, and other tricks. They need to be very strong and balanced. Long ago, people in Egypt, Greece, Rome, and China did acrobatics. Later, acrobats performed in circuses. Today, acrobatics is also a sport where people compete.
Tessellation\n\nA tessellation is when you put shapes next to each other over and over with no empty spaces and no shapes on top of each other. It is like a puzzle where the pieces fit together perfectly. You can make tessellations with triangles, squares, and hexagons. Bees use hexagons to build their honeycombs. People have used tessellations to decorate buildings for a very long time. The artist M.C. Escher made beautiful pictures with tessellations.
Lava\n\nLava is very hot, melted rock that comes out of a volcano. It flows like thick, gooey syrup. Some lava is thick and moves slowly, like blocky lava that makes piles of sharp rocks. Other lava is thin and flows faster, like pahoehoe, which looks like twisted rope. Aa lava has a rough, spiky surface. When lava goes into the water, it makes round lumps called pillow lava. Lava can be so hot that it sets things on fire. Sometimes it even covers houses and roads.
Tajikistan\n\nTajikistan is a country in Central Asia. It is a republic, which means people vote for their leaders. The capital city is Dushanbe. The people there speak Tajik. Tajikistan is landlocked, which means it has no ocean next to it. It is very mountainous, with high mountains and river valleys. The summers are hot and the winters are mild. Long ago, Tajikistan was part of the Soviet Union. It became its own country in 1991.
Superhero\n\nA superhero is a make-believe person who helps people and fights bad guys. Many superheroes have special powers like being very strong, fast, or able to see far away. They wear colorful clothes and masks to hide who they are. Some superheroes, like Batman, do not have special powers but train very hard to be strong and smart. Superheroes keep their faces hidden so bad guys cannot hurt their families. Many superheroes became heroes because something sad happened to them, and they wanted to stop bad things from happening to others.
Dead reckoning\n\nDead reckoning is a way to guess where you are. It uses the last place you knew for sure, plus how fast and which way you moved. Long ago, sailors used dead reckoning to cross the ocean. They threw a log tied to a rope over the side of the ship to find how fast they were going. A compass told them which way they were going. The wind and water could push the ship off course, so they had to guess again. Today, people use GPS to know where they are. But dead reckoning is still taught to sailors and pilots in case GPS stops working.
Red deer\n\nA red deer is a big animal with antlers. It lives in many places like Europe, Asia, and Africa. Red deer eat grass and plants. They have brown fur and can run very fast. People sometimes eat the meat from red deer, which is called venison.
Five Pillars of Islam\n\nThe Five Pillars of Islam are five important rules that people who follow Islam must do. The first rule is to say that there is only one God and Muhammad is his messenger. The second rule is to pray five times every day. The third rule is to give money to help poor people. The fourth rule is to not eat or drink from sunrise to sunset during a special month called Ramadan. The fifth rule is to visit a special city called Mecca at least once in your life if you can.
Dolphin\n\nA dolphin is a mammal that lives in the ocean. It is not a fish. Dolphins breathe air, and their nose is on top of their head so they can breathe at the water's surface. They have smooth, gray skin that feels soft and rubbery. Dolphins live in groups called pods. They swim together, hunt together, and help each other stay safe. Dolphins eat fish and use sound to find their food. They can jump in and out of the water when they swim fast. Dolphins are very smart animals. Some dolphins live in rivers, but most live in the salty ocean.
Debt\n\nDebt is when you owe something to someone else. Usually it is money, but it can also be things or help. If you borrow a toy from a friend, you owe that toy back. That is a debt. People and companies use debt to buy big things they cannot pay for all at once, like a house or a car. If you do not pay back a debt, the person you owe can take something you own, like a car. Some debts are safe because you promise something, and some are not safe. Credit cards are a way to borrow money, but you must pay it back later.
Venice\n\nVenice is a city in Italy that is built on many small islands. Instead of roads, it has canals, which are like water streets. People ride boats to get around. The most famous boat is called a gondola. Venice has many old buildings and bridges. The Rialto Bridge is a famous stone bridge with shops on it. Every year, the city sinks a little bit because the ground is soft mud. Sometimes water floods the streets. Many tourists visit Venice to see the canals and the pretty buildings.
Socialism\n\nSocialism is a way for people to share big things like factories and tools together. In socialism, the workers who make things also own them, not just one rich person. People who like socialism think everyone should have food, a place to live, and a doctor when they are sick. Some people want to get socialism by voting, and some think they have to take it by force. Not everyone agrees with socialism. Some people think it is better when each person owns their own things. There are many kinds of socialism, like democratic socialism and social democracy.
Pork\n\nPork is meat that comes from pigs. People eat pork in many places around the world. Some foods made from pork are sausages, bacon, and ham. You can cook pork in different ways for a meal.
Air pollution\n\nAir pollution is dirty air that is not good to breathe. It comes from smoke, car fumes, and other bad gases. Big cities often have dirty air. Smoke from fires and cars makes the air dirty. Some air pollution comes from nature, like dust and ash from volcanoes. But people also make a lot of air pollution. Cars and factories make smoke that goes into the air. This dirty air can make people sick, especially kids and old people. It can also hurt trees, animals, and fish. Rain can mix with dirty air and become acid rain, which hurts plants and buildings. The air inside homes can also be dirty from paint, carpets, and new furniture. People are working to make the air cleaner.
Bird\n\nA bird is an animal with feathers, wings, and a beak. Birds have two legs and lay eggs with hard shells. They are warm-blooded, which means their body stays warm inside. Birds live all over the world. Some birds are very small, like the bee hummingbird, and some are very big, like the ostrich. Most birds can fly, but some, like penguins, cannot. Birds use their wings to fly and their feathers to stay warm and dry. Many birds sing songs to talk to each other. Birds build nests to lay their eggs and take care of their babies. Some birds are brown or green to hide from danger, while others have bright colors to show off. People keep some birds as pets, and we get eggs and meat from others.
Agricultural science\n\nAgricultural science is about learning how to grow food for people to eat. People who study this are called agricultural scientists. They help farmers grow big, healthy plants and take care of animals on farms. This science helps us have enough fruits, vegetables, and grains to eat every day.
Telecommunication\n\nTelecommunication is how people send messages far away. Long ago, people used smoke, drums, or flags to talk to each other from far away. Now we use telephones, radios, and computers to send messages. A telephone lets you talk to someone in another house. A radio sends music and news through the air. A computer can send pictures and words very fast. All these things help people stay in touch even when they are not close.
Probability\n\nProbability is about chance. It helps us guess if something might happen or not. For example, when you flip a coin, it can land on heads or tails. The chance of getting heads is one out of two. When you roll a dice, the chance of getting a 1 is one out of six. To find the chance of two things both happening, you multiply their chances together. Probability uses math to figure out how likely things are.
Holstein Friesian\n\nA Holstein Friesian is a kind of cow. It has black and white spots on its body. This cow comes from the Netherlands and Germany. It is big and heavy, like a small car. A baby Holstein Friesian is called a calf. The cow gives a lot of milk every day. People use the milk to make cheese and yogurt. You can see these cows in many fields eating grass.
Carbon\n\nCarbon is a very important thing that all living things need. It is a kind of stuff that is not metal. Carbon is in your body, and it is in plants and animals. Carbon can be hard like a diamond or soft like the gray part of a pencil. Diamonds are the hardest rocks. The gray part of a pencil is called graphite, and it is very soft. Carbon is also in coal, which we burn for heat. Carbon makes long chains that become plastic and the stuff in food. Carbon is everywhere: in the air, in the ground, and in you.
Javelin\n\nA javelin is a long, light stick that looks like a spear. Long ago, people used it as a weapon. Today, people throw it for sport. In the javelin throw, a runner holds the javelin in one hand and throws it as far as they can while running. It is an event in the Olympic Games.
Bleeding\n\nBleeding is when blood comes out of your body. It can happen if you get a cut on your skin. Sometimes bleeding happens inside your body, and you cannot see it. A little bleeding is okay, like when you get a small scrape. But if you lose too much blood, it can be very bad. Your body needs blood to stay healthy.
Honshū\n\nHonshū is a big piece of land in Japan. It is the biggest island of Japan. Many people live there. It is the main island where big cities are. Other islands are near it.
Wife\n\nA wife is a woman who is married. Married means two people are joined together by law. When a woman gets married, she is called a bride. Some men have one wife, and some men can have more than one wife. A queen is a wife of a king.
Riddle\n\nA riddle is a fun question or a tricky saying. You have to think hard to find the answer. The answer is not always easy to guess. Riddles make you use your brain in a clever way. People tell riddles to each other for fun.
Frostbite\n\nFrostbite is when very cold weather hurts your skin. It happens most often on toes, fingers, nose, and ears. The skin gets very cold and can turn white or gray. It hurts a lot. If you get frostbite, you need a grown-up to help you get warm right away.
United Arab Emirates\n\nThe United Arab Emirates is a country in Asia. It is next to Oman, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia. The capital is Abu Dhabi, and the biggest city is Dubai. In Dubai there is the Burj Khalifa, the tallest building in the world. The country has seven parts called emirates. Each emirate is ruled by a leader. The United Arab Emirates has a lot of oil and gas. Many people from all over the world live there. The country has mountains, flat land, red sand dunes, and an oasis with palm trees. In 2021, the United Arab Emirates sent a spaceship to Mars. It was the first Arab country to do that.
Kingdom of England\n\nThe Kingdom of England was a country in Europe. It was on the southern part of a big island called Great Britain. Long ago, many small groups of people lived there. Later, one king named Egbert became the first king of all England. The kingdom ended when it joined with Scotland to make a new country called the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Constellation\n\nA constellation is a group of stars that look like a picture in the night sky. The stars are very far away, but when you look up, they seem to make shapes like animals, people, or things. Long ago, people gave names to these star pictures. Some constellations are named after stories from long ago, like Orion the hunter or the big bear called Ursa Major. There are 88 constellations that scientists use today. Some of them are part of a special group called the Zodiac. The Sun moves through the Zodiac once every year.
Celebrity\n\nA celebrity is a person that many people know. They get a lot of attention from others. Most celebrities are famous because they act in movies, sing songs, or play sports. Some celebrities are famous just because their family is famous. People see celebrities on TV, in movies, and on the internet. Many people like to watch what celebrities do.
Kosher\n\nKosher is a word for the special food rules that Jewish people follow. Some foods are okay to eat, and some are not. Meat and milk cannot be eaten together in the same meal. Fish, fruits, and vegetables can be eaten with either meat or milk. Jewish people who keep kosher use separate plates and forks for meat and milk. Some animals, like pigs, are not allowed to be eaten at all. Animals that are okay to eat must be killed in a careful way by a special person.
Kyiv\n\nKyiv is a big city and the capital of Ukraine. It sits on a big river called the Dnipro. More than three million people live there. Kyiv is not part of any state, but it is the main place for the state around it. The city had a big soccer game in 2012 and a song contest in 2017. The weather in Kyiv is cold in winter and warm in summer.
Adder\n\nAn adder is a snake that lives in many parts of Europe and Asia. It is the only snake with poison in the British Isles. Adders are not mean and only bite if they are scared. Their bite hurts a lot but almost never kills people. Adders grow to be about as long as a big ruler. Girls are brown with dark spots, and boys are gray with black spots. Some adders are all black. They eat small animals like mice, frogs, and baby birds. In the United Kingdom, it is against the law to hurt an adder.
Contract\n\nA contract is a promise that people make to each other. Sometimes the promise is written down and signed. For example, when someone gets a job, they might sign a contract that says what they will do and how much money they will get. If someone breaks the promise, a judge can help fix it.
Royal National Park\n\nThe Royal National Park is a big park in Australia, near the city of Sydney. It is one of the oldest national parks in the world. The park has many different kinds of land: hills made of sandstone, forests with eucalyptus trees, a river that runs through it, and beaches by the ocean. Some parts of the park have picnic tables and places to cook food. You can get to the park by car from three different roads. You need to pay a small fee to go into the park.
Intensive farming\n\nIntensive farming is a way of growing food where people use a lot of machines and chemicals to get more food from the same piece of land. Farmers use strong sprays to kill bugs and medicine to keep animals healthy. This is different from old-style farming, which uses more people and less machines. Intensive farming started a long time ago when people invented machines like tractors and harvesters. These machines help one farmer take care of a very big farm. Farmers also use special food for plants called fertilizer to make them grow bigger. Some people do not like intensive farming because it can make animals sad and dirty the water. That is why some people buy food that is grown without these strong chemicals.
Hammer\n\nA hammer is a tool you use to hit nails into wood. It has a long handle and a flat end for hitting. Some hammers have a curved end to pull nails out. A big hammer called a sledgehammer is swung with two hands. People have used hammers for a very long time, even millions of years ago. The first hammers were just stones. Later, people tied stones to sticks to make handles. Hammers help with building things and fixing things.
Vinegar\n\nVinegar is a sour liquid that people use in cooking. It is made from things like wine or apple juice that have turned a little bit sour. The sour taste comes from a special part called acid. People put vinegar on salad, fish, french fries, and vegetables like pickles. There are many kinds of vinegar, such as balsamic, red wine, and apple cider vinegar.
Glasgow\n\nGlasgow is the biggest city in Scotland. It sits next to a big river called the River Clyde. People who live there are called Glaswegians. Many people visit Glasgow from other countries like France and America. The city has two airports and two big train stations. There are many theaters and concert halls where people watch shows. Football is very popular in Glasgow. The two biggest teams are Celtic and Rangers. The weather changes a lot, and mornings are often damp and misty. In summer, people stay in Glasgow and travel to see pretty lakes and islands.
International trade\n\nInternational trade is when countries buy things from each other or sell things to each other. One country might send toys to another country, and that other country might send fruit back. Sometimes countries put up walls to stop trade, like making things very expensive to buy from other countries. Other times, countries agree to trade freely without those walls. This helps people get things they need from far away.
Indian Ocean\n\nThe Indian Ocean is a very big body of water. It is the third biggest ocean in the world. It touches Asia, Africa, Australia, and other oceans. The ocean is named after India, a country that sticks out into it. Parts of the Indian Ocean are the Bay of Bengal, the Arabian Sea, the Persian Gulf, and the Red Sea. The deepest part is near some islands called the Sunda Islands. Most of the ocean is in the southern half of the world.
New York City Subway\n\nThe New York City Subway is a train system in New York City. It is one of the biggest train systems in the world, with 472 stations. The trains run all day and all night, every day of the year. They only closed a few times, like during a big storm. Some trains go above ground on tracks in the air, and some go underground in tunnels. People use the subway to go to school, work, and other places. You have to pay money to ride. You can buy a card from a machine to get on the train. The subway has many different train lines, each with a letter or number. Some trains stop at every station, and some skip some stations to go faster. Many stations have art on the walls. Sometimes people play music in the stations. The subway is a fast way to travel around the big city.
Siberia\n\nSiberia is a very big, very cold part of Russia. It is in Asia, not Europe. Siberia covers almost all of Russia, but not many people live there because it is so cold. The Yenisei river splits Siberia into two parts: east and west. Most people in Siberia live in big cities like Novosibirsk, Omsk, and Krasnoyarsk. Many different kinds of people live in Siberia, including some who came from Europe a long time ago.
Southern Ocean\n\nThe Southern Ocean is the big water that goes all around the very cold continent of Antarctica. It is one of the biggest oceans on Earth. The water is very cold and full of ice. Many whales and penguins live there.
History of writing\n\nWriting is a way to keep words so you can see them later. Long ago, people did not have writing. They drew pictures on rocks and caves to tell stories. Later, people made marks on clay and paper. Writing helps us remember things and share ideas with people far away. Today, we use letters and numbers to write.
Glacier\n\nA glacier is a very big, thick piece of ice and snow. It forms in cold places where snow does not melt all summer. Each winter, more snow falls on top. The snow gets so heavy that the bottom turns into ice. After many years, the ice becomes so big and heavy that it starts to move, very, very slowly, like a river of ice. Glaciers are blue because water soaks up most colors of light, but blue light can get out. Glaciers hold a lot of fresh water. They can change the shape of mountains as they move. Lately, many glaciers are melting because the Earth is getting warmer.
Tropical rainforest\n\nA tropical rainforest is a forest that gets a lot of rain. It is warm all year round, like a greenhouse. The biggest rainforest is the Amazon in Brazil. More than half of all plants and animals in the world live in the rainforest. Many medicines come from rainforest plants. The rainforest has five layers. The top layer is the emergent layer, where tall trees reach up high and birds like eagles and parrots fly. Below that is the canopy, which is like a big green roof. Monkeys, birds, and insects live there and never touch the ground. The understory is dark and humid, with bushes and ferns. The shrub layer has many orchids. The forest floor is dark and open, with snakes, jaguars, and ants. Some plants called air plants grow on trees and collect water from rain. Frogs lay eggs in the water pools of air plants. Many colorful birds and monkeys live in the trees. The rainforest is full of life.
Green politics\n\nGreen politics is a way of thinking about how people should take care of the Earth. People who follow green politics want to keep the air, water, and land clean. They think we should use less energy and protect animals and plants. Green parties are groups of people who work together to make these ideas happen. They started becoming popular in the 1970s.
Figure skating\n\nFigure skating is a sport where people skate on ice and do jumps and spins. They skate to music. Sometimes one person skates alone, and sometimes two people skate together. In pairs skating, the man can lift the woman in the air. In ice dancing, they hold each other and dance. There are also big groups that skate together. Figure skating is in the Winter Olympics. Skaters wear special boots with blades on the bottom so they can slide on the ice.
Giant star\n\nA giant star is a very big star in space. It is much bigger and brighter than our Sun. Some giant stars are red, some are yellow, and some are blue. They do not live as long as smaller stars. The biggest giant stars are called supergiants.
Forecasting\n\nForecasting is when people study things and try to guess what will happen next. It is like making a smart guess about the future. People use forecasting to tell if it will rain tomorrow. They look at clouds and wind to make their guess. Sometimes they are right, and sometimes they are wrong. That is okay because nobody knows the future for sure.
Celery\n\nCelery is a vegetable that you can eat. It is long and green, like a stick. People often put celery in salad. It is crunchy and makes a snapping sound when you bite it.
Lesson\n\nA lesson is a time when you learn something new. In school, a teacher gives a lesson to help you understand a subject. Lessons can happen in a classroom, outside, or on a computer. Sometimes you learn a lesson by accident, like when you touch something hot and learn not to do it again. A lesson can be fun, too, like when you play a game that teaches you something.
Beach\n\nA beach is a place where the land meets the water of an ocean, sea, lake, or river. It is covered with tiny bits of sand, small stones, or pebbles. People love to go to the beach to swim, play in the sand, and lie in the sun. Some beaches have warm water and soft white sand. You can also see boats at the beach. Beaches change over time as the water moves the sand around.
Book\n\nA book is a set of paper pages held together between two covers. The pages have words and sometimes pictures. A person who writes a book is called an author. Someone who draws the pictures is called an illustrator. Some books are stories that are made up, like fairy tales. Other books tell true facts, like a book about animals or a cookbook. Books can be borrowed from a library or bought from a store. Some books are hard and have a cover made of cardboard. Other books have a soft paper cover. A small book is called a booklet. People can also make their own books with drawings and photos.
Tamil language\n\nTamil is a language that people speak in India and Sri Lanka. Many people in Singapore and Malaysia also speak it. Tamil has its own special letters that look different from English letters. There are 247 letters in the Tamil alphabet. People write Tamil from left to right, just like English. Tamil is a very old language, and people have been writing stories and poems in it for a very long time.
Drainage basin\n\nA drainage basin is a big piece of land. All the rain that falls on that land goes into one river. Some rivers are very big and collect water from a huge area. The water comes from the sky and then flows away in the river.
Novel\n\nA novel is a book that tells one long story. It is longer than a short story. Novels have many pages, usually 100 or more. There are many kinds of novels. Some are adventure stories, like "Treasure Island." Some are scary stories, like "Frankenstein." Others are funny stories, like "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer." The first novels were written more than 300 years ago.
Gardenia\n\nA gardenia is a plant with pretty white or light yellow flowers. The flowers smell very sweet and nice. Gardenia plants have shiny dark green leaves that feel like leather. They grow in warm places like Africa and Asia. Gardenias like a lot of water in the air. Some people grow them in their gardens or in pots.
Breadfruit\n\nBreadfruit is a fruit that grows on a big tree. The tree is always green and comes from the mulberry family. Breadfruit looks like a big green ball and feels a little bumpy on the outside. Inside, it is soft and starchy, like a potato. People can cook breadfruit or grind it into flour to make bread. The tree grows in warm places like islands and near the ocean. Long ago, people took breadfruit trees on boats to new islands so they could have food to eat.
Seattle\n\nSeattle is a big city in the state of Washington. It sits near water, with a big lake on one side and the ocean on the other. Many people live there. Seattle has a tall tower called the Space Needle that you can ride up to see the whole city. It also has a train that runs on one rail. Big companies like Microsoft and Starbucks started there. People in Seattle like to watch sports teams like the Seahawks and the Mariners. The city is also home to the University of Washington.
Greek mythology\n\nGreek mythology is a big set of stories from a long time ago in a place called Greece. The stories tell about gods and goddesses who are very powerful and never die. They live on top of a tall mountain called Mount Olympus. The king of the gods is Zeus, who rules the sky. There are also heroes, monsters, and adventures in these stories. One monster is a minotaur, which is half man and half bull. The Greeks believed the sun was a chariot driven by the god Apollo across the sky every day.
Gasoline\n\nGasoline is a clear liquid that cars and other machines use to run. It is made from oil that comes from deep underground. Gasoline is very dangerous because it can catch fire easily. You should never drink it or get it on your skin. Cars need gasoline to go, and you can buy it at a gas station. Some machines like lawnmowers and small boats also use gasoline. Gasoline makes a car's engine go vroom-vroom.
True bug\n\nA true bug is a kind of insect. There are many different kinds of true bugs, like aphids, cicadas, and shield bugs. True bugs are very small or a little big, from 1 millimeter to over 10 centimeters. They have a long, tube-like mouth that they use to suck up plant sap. They cannot chew their food. Most true bugs have front wings that are half hard and half soft. Their back wings are all soft and shorter than the front ones. True bugs have antennae with five parts and feet with three or fewer parts.
Yak (disambiguation)\n\nA yak is a big animal with long hair. It is a kind of cow. There are two kinds of yak. Yaks live in cold, high places.
Zimbabwe\n\nZimbabwe is a country in Africa. It is far from the ocean, so it has no beaches. The capital city is Harare. Zimbabwe has a big waterfall called Victoria Falls. Long ago, the country was ruled by Britain. Now people vote for their leaders. The people speak many languages, like Shona and Ndebele. Many animals live there, like lions, elephants, and zebras. Soccer is the most popular sport.
Tundra\n\nTundra is a very cold place on Earth where trees cannot grow. The ground is frozen most of the year. Only small plants like grass, moss, and lichens live there. Some animals live in the tundra, like arctic foxes, caribou, and snowy owls. These animals have thick fur to stay warm. In winter, the snow is deep and cold, so some animals sleep through the winter.
Dove\n\nA dove is a kind of bird. Doves are usually small and have soft feathers. They can be white, gray, or brown. Doves make nests out of sticks. The mother and father dove both sit on the eggs to keep them warm. Baby doves drink a special milk that comes from the parent's throat. Doves eat seeds, fruit, and plants. You can see doves in many places around the world, like parks and cities. Some people think doves are a sign of peace.
Cheque\n\nA cheque is a special piece of paper that lets you give money to someone else. When you write a cheque, you promise to pay that person. The person who gets the cheque can take it to a bank and get the money. A cheque must have the name of the person or business you are paying. It also needs the amount of money written in numbers and in words. The person writing the cheque must sign it. A cheque has a date on it. If the date is in the future, the bank will not give the money until that day comes. Each cheque has its own number so no one can use it twice. People have used cheques for a very long time, even more than a thousand years.
Qatar\n\nQatar is a small country in Asia. It sits on a piece of land that sticks out into the water. It is next to Saudi Arabia and near the Persian Gulf. Many people live in Qatar, but most of them come from other countries to work. Qatar has a lot of natural gas and oil, so it is very rich. The weather is hot and dry. The ruler of Qatar is called an emir. In 2022, Qatar hosted the FIFA World Cup, which is a big soccer party where many countries play games. People in Qatar speak Arabic. The country has big cities with tall buildings and nice beaches.
Drink\n\nA drink is a liquid you can put in your mouth and swallow. People drink water, milk, juice, and tea. All drinks have water in them. Every living thing needs water to stay alive. If you do not drink enough water, you can get very sick. Plants take water from the ground through their roots. Most animals drink water too. Some places, like deserts, have very little water. A place in the desert that has water is called an oasis.
Berlin\n\nBerlin is a big city in Germany. It is the capital city, which means the country's leaders work there. Many people live in Berlin, about as many as in a very large town. The city has rivers and lakes, and lots of trees. There are famous old buildings like the Brandenburg Gate. Long ago, a wall split the city into two parts. People could not cross from one side to the other. In 1989, the wall came down and the city became one again. Today, Berlin has many people from different countries. There are many schools, museums, and places to eat. People enjoy visiting Berlin to see its sights and have fun.
Sydney\n\nSydney is a big city in Australia, on the east coast. It is the biggest city in Australia. Many people live there. Sydney has a big harbour and many beaches. The most famous beach is Bondi Beach. There are famous buildings like the Sydney Opera House and the Sydney Harbour Bridge. You can see animals at Taronga Zoo. Every year in May and June, there is Vivid Sydney with pretty lights and music. In March or April, there is the Royal Easter Show with rides and farm animals. Sydney has warm summers and cool winters. It rains a lot in some months. The sun can be very strong in summer.
Japanese language\n\nJapanese is the language people speak in Japan, a country in East Asia. It uses three ways of writing: hiragana, katakana, and kanji. Hiragana and katakana show how to say the words, and kanji shows what the words mean. In Japanese, the verb comes at the end of the sentence. The words can change by adding small parts to the end. Many English words, like "ice cream," are now used in Japanese. Japan is called "Nihon," which means "sun-origin," so it is called the Land of the Rising Sun.
Nervous system\n\nThe nervous system is a part of your body that sends messages all around. It helps you feel things, move, and think. The brain and the spinal cord are the main parts. The brain has many tiny cells that help you walk, breathe, and play. When you touch something hot, the nervous system tells your hand to pull away very fast. It works in less than a blink of an eye.
Space\n\nSpace is the big area above the sky. It is very far away, and there is no air there. The stars, the moon, and the sun are all in space. Space is very dark and very cold. Astronauts go to space in rockets to learn about it.
Desert\n\nA desert is a very dry place where it almost never rains. Deserts can be hot during the day and cold at night. Some deserts are covered with sand, and others have rocks or snow. The biggest hot desert is the Sahara in Africa. Some animals live in deserts, like lizards, snakes, and camels. Camels store water in their humps. Plants like cactus store water in their thick stems. Sometimes wind blows sand into big clouds called sandstorms.
Robin Hood\n\nRobin Hood is a hero from old stories in England. He lives in a big forest called Sherwood with his friends. Robin Hood takes money from bad people who are mean to the poor. Then he gives the money back to the poor people. He is very good at shooting a bow and arrow. His friends are called the Merry Men. They help him do good things. Many movies and cartoons tell stories about Robin Hood.
Assembly line\n\nAn assembly line is a way to make things fast. Many workers and machines each do one small job. They add parts one after another to build a whole thing, like a car. Long ago, one person made the whole thing by hand. That took a very long time. With an assembly line, many things can be made much faster. Henry Ford used an assembly line to make cars. His cars became cheaper, so more people could buy them. The workers also got more money. The idea of an assembly line is very old. Even the clay soldiers in China, called the Terracotta Army, were made by putting together parts that were made separately.
Precipitation\n\nPrecipitation is water that falls from the sky. It can be rain, snow, sleet, or hail. Rain is water drops. Snow is soft and white. Hail is hard ice balls. A rain gauge can measure how much rain falls. Fog and mist are not precipitation because they stay in the air.
Middle age\n\nMiddle age is the time in life after being young and before being old. It starts when a person is about 40 years old and lasts until about 60 years old. People in middle age often have jobs and families. They may have more money than when they were younger, but they also spend money on their children. Some people feel sad or worried about getting older. Middle-aged people start to get wrinkles on their skin and gray hair. They may not be as strong or fast as before. Women in middle age stop being able to have babies.
Dwarf galaxy\n\nA dwarf galaxy is a small group of stars in space. It has only a few billion stars, which is much fewer than our own galaxy, the Milky Way. The Milky Way has hundreds of billions of stars. Some dwarf galaxies orbit bigger galaxies, like the Milky Way. The Milky Way has more than 20 dwarf galaxies going around it. Sometimes a dwarf galaxy gets pulled into a bigger galaxy and becomes part of it.
Soap opera\n\nA soap opera is a story on TV or the radio that goes on for a long time. Each day or week, a new part of the story is shown. The story can last for weeks, months, or even years. In America, soap operas are on every afternoon from Monday to Friday. In the U.K., they are on in the evening a few times a week. Some famous soap operas are about people who live in a town or a village. People watch them to see what happens to the characters next.
History of technology\n\nThe history of technology is about how people made tools and machines over a long, long time. Long ago, people learned to make fire and simple tools from stone. Later, they made wheels, boats, and clocks. Then came trains, cars, and airplanes that help us travel far. Now we have computers and phones that let us talk to people far away. Technology helps us do things we could not do with just our hands and feet.
History of medicine\n\nThe history of medicine is about how people learned to help sick people get better over a very long time. Long ago, people used plants to heal. In old times, doctors in different places wrote down what they knew. A man named Hippocrates was one of the first to describe sickness. Another man named Galen thought that four body liquids—blood, phlegm, yellow bile, and black bile—made people sick. Later, a doctor named William Harvey found out that blood moves around the body. A man named Antonie van Leeuwenhoek used a special tool called a microscope to see tiny living things. Doctors learned that washing hands stops germs from spreading. Louis Pasteur made shots that keep people from getting sick.
Human skeleton\n\nYour skeleton is the hard frame inside your body that holds you up. When you are born, you have about 300 bones. As you grow up, some bones join together, so an adult has 206 bones. The skeleton helps you stand, move, and run. It also protects soft parts inside you, like your brain and heart. Your bones make blood cells and store minerals. Boys and girls have skeletons that are mostly the same, but a girl's hips are wider to help her have a baby someday.
Wetland\n\nA wetland is a place that is part land and part water. It is like a big, wet, muddy area. Many different plants, animals, and bugs live in wetlands because there is both wet and dry ground. Some wetlands are very special, and people work to keep them safe.
Uterus\n\nThe uterus is a part inside a woman's body. It is shaped like a pear. A baby grows inside the uterus for nine months before it is born. The uterus has a soft lining that gives food to the baby. Every month, the lining comes out as blood. This is called a period. The uterus is a strong muscle. When it is time for a baby to be born, the uterus pushes the baby out. The uterus changes size. It starts small and grows big when a baby is inside. After a baby is born, the uterus gets small again.
Infection\n\nAn infection is when tiny germs get inside your body and make you sick. These germs can be very small things like bacteria or viruses. They get in through your nose, mouth, or a cut on your skin. Once inside, they make more of themselves and can give you a fever, a cough, or a tummy ache. Some infections spread from one person to another when you cough, sneeze, or touch someone. You can help stop infections by washing your hands with soap and water. Doctors have special medicines that kill some germs, but not all. Some sicknesses, like a cold, go away by themselves. Shots from the doctor can also keep you from getting some infections.
Oil refinery\n\nAn oil refinery is a big factory where oil from the ground is turned into things we use every day. The factory heats the oil until it separates into different parts. Some parts become gas for cars, some become fuel for trucks and buses, and some become oil to heat houses. Other parts are used to make roads and to cook food. The refinery has many tall pipes and towers that help make these useful products.
Granite\n\nGranite is a hard rock that comes from deep inside the Earth. It is made when hot, melted rock cools very slowly under the ground. Granite can be gray, brown, or even pink. It has tiny sparkly bits in it that you can see when it is cut and polished. People use granite to make kitchen counters and buildings because it is strong and does not get hurt by water.
Japanese writing system\n\nJapanese writing is made of three kinds of letters. Hiragana is for Japanese words. Katakana is for words that came from other countries. Kanji are picture letters that came from China a long time ago. People in Japan use all three together to write.
Atoll\n\nAn atoll is a kind of island that looks like a doughnut. It is made from coral, which is a hard rock-like thing that tiny sea animals build. Long ago, a volcano stood in the ocean. Coral grew around it. Over many years, the volcano sank down into the water. The coral kept growing up toward the sun. In the end, only the coral ring was left, with a round pool of water in the middle. Most atolls are in warm oceans like the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean. Some countries are made of atolls.
Water\n\nWater is a clear liquid that has no taste or smell. All living things need water to stay alive. You can drink water, wash with water, and play in water. Water comes in three forms: solid ice, liquid water, and gas you cannot see. Most of Earth is covered with water, but most of that is salty ocean water we cannot drink. Only a little bit of water is fresh and can be used by people. Water is always moving in a cycle: it falls as rain, flows into rivers and oceans, and goes back up into the sky. Water can dissolve many things, which makes it very useful for cleaning and cooking. Ice floats because water gets bigger when it freezes. Many animals and plants live in water. People use water for farming, making electricity, and having fun like swimming and boating. Water is also found in space on other planets and moons.
Dead Sea\n\nThe Dead Sea is a lake in Asia. It is the lowest place on Earth. The water is very, very salty — almost nine times saltier than the ocean. Most animals and plants cannot live there because the water is too salty. That is why it is called the Dead Sea. But some tiny living things can still live in it. The water is so heavy with salt that people can float on top without trying. Many people visit the Dead Sea to float in the water.
Baroque\n\nBaroque is a way of making art, buildings, music, and dance that was used a long time ago in Europe. It uses lots of bright colors, big shapes, and fancy details to make things look exciting and surprising. People who made Baroque art wanted to show big feelings and make you say 'wow!' You can see Baroque in old churches, palaces, and paintings with lots of gold and moving figures.
Aerosol\n\nAn aerosol is tiny bits of stuff floating in the air. Smoke from a fire is an aerosol. Fog and mist are aerosols too. Some cans spray out an aerosol when you push a button. That spray can be wet or dry. You can see it in the air for a little while.
Vapor\n\nVapor is when tiny drops of water float in the air. You can see vapor when water gets hot, like when a pot boils on the stove. The white mist that comes out is called steam. Vapor is not the same as air you cannot see. It is a mix of water and air.
Cave painting\n\nCave paintings are pictures that people made a long, long time ago on the walls and ceilings of caves. Nobody knows for sure why they made them. Maybe they were part of special ceremonies, or maybe they were like signs or stories. Most of these old paintings show animals or people hunting. Some also show handprints. The people who made them used rocks and dirt to make colors like red, yellow, and black. They drew with sticks or their fingers. Many of these caves are in France and Spain. Some paintings are very hard to reach inside the cave. Today, we can still see them and wonder about the people who made them.
Guatemala City\n\nGuatemala City is a big city in Central America. It is the capital of the country called Guatemala. Many people live there. The city was built a long time ago after big earthquakes broke the old capital. People in Guatemala City buy and sell things at markets. There is a museum for children and a big street where people can walk. There is also an old palace where the government used to work.
Rabies\n\nRabies is a very bad sickness that can hurt animals and people. It comes from a tiny germ that gets into the body through a bite or scratch from a sick animal, like a dog or a bat. At first, a person feels fine, but later they can get a fever and feel scared of water. Their mouth might make foam. Almost everyone who gets rabies dies, but there is a shot that can stop it if you get it right after a bite. Dogs and cats can get a shot to keep them from getting rabies. You should stay away from wild animals that act strange.
Muskrat\n\nA muskrat is a small animal that lives in water. It looks like a big mouse with a long, flat tail. Muskrats live in marshes, lakes, and ponds. They build houses out of plants in the water. The only way in is under the water, so other animals cannot get them. Some muskrats dig holes in the ground near the water. Muskrats are very good at swimming but slow on land. They come from North America, but now they also live in Europe and Asia. Muskrats have special glands that make a strong smell, and that is how they got their name.
Inertia\n\nInertia is a big word that means things like to keep doing what they are already doing. If a toy is sitting still on the floor, it will stay still until someone pushes it or picks it up. If a ball is rolling, it will keep rolling in a straight line until something stops it, like a wall or your hand. That is why you have to push a swing to make it go, and why a car needs brakes to stop. Inertia is also called Newton's First Law.
Nineveh\n\nNineveh was a very old city next to a big river called the Tigris. It was the main city of a strong kingdom called Assyria. The city had a big wall made of stone and mud bricks. The wall was very long and had tall towers. People had to go through gates to get in or out of the city. The gates were like small forts with rooms inside. A long time ago, the city was broken and now only ruins are left. The ruins are near a city called Mosul in a country called Iraq.
Hindi\n\nHindi is a language that many people in India speak. It is one of the official languages of India. Almost half of the people in India talk in Hindi. Hindi uses a special way of writing called Devanagari. Hindi and Urdu are very similar, so people who speak one can understand the other. Many movies in India, called Bollywood movies, use Hindi words. People in other countries like Fiji, Nepal, and the United States also speak Hindi.
Switzerland\n\nSwitzerland is a country in Europe. It is in the middle of the continent. Next to Switzerland are Germany, Austria, Liechtenstein, Italy, and France. Switzerland has very tall mountains called the Alps. Snow and ice stay on the mountains all year. Many rivers start in the mountains. There are also many big lakes. Most people live in the north part of the country. The biggest city is Zurich. The city of Bern is used like a capital. People in Switzerland speak four languages: German, French, Italian, and Romansh. Switzerland is famous for its chocolate, cheese, and watches. It is also known for not fighting in wars. That is called being neutral. Many important world offices are in Switzerland, like the United Nations office in Geneva.
Stoat\n\nA stoat is a small animal with a long, thin body and short legs. It has small ears and thick, warm fur. In summer its fur is brown, but in winter it turns white. Its tail has a black tip all year round. Stoats live in cold places in Europe, Asia, and North America. They hunt other small animals and can even kill animals bigger than themselves. They bite the neck of their prey. Stoats can climb trees and spray a bad smell when they are scared. They do not dig their own homes; they use the burrows of animals they kill. Baby stoats are called kits.
Cubit\n\nA cubit is an old way to measure how long something is. Long ago, people did not have rulers like we do today. They used their own arm to measure things. A cubit is the length from your elbow to the tip of your middle finger. That is about as long as a big ruler. People used cubits to measure cloth, wood, and stone. Different places had different cubits, but they were all about the same size.
Rainbow\n\nA rainbow is a colorful arc in the sky. You can see it when the sun shines through falling rain. The colors are red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and purple. They always appear in the same order. A rainbow is really a circle, but we only see the top part from the ground. Sometimes you can see a second, bigger and lighter rainbow. Rainbows often show up after a storm. They are a sign of peace for many people. You can also see rainbow colors near waterfalls or when you spray water on a sunny day.
Short story\n\nA short story is a little made-up tale that you can read or tell. It is much shorter than a big book like a novel. The story starts fast and ends fast. Some short stories are so short they only have ten words. People often put many short stories together in one book.
Triangulum galaxy\n\nThe Triangulum galaxy is a big spinning group of stars far, far away in space. It is shaped like a pinwheel and you can see it from Earth on a very dark night if you know where to look. It is the third biggest galaxy in our neighborhood of galaxies, which also includes our own Milky Way and the Andromeda galaxy. The Triangulum galaxy has two main arms that curl around like a spiral, and it does not have a bar across its middle. There is no giant black hole at its center, but the middle part gives off a lot of X-rays, which are a kind of light we cannot see with our eyes.
Fence\n\nA fence is like a wall made of wood or metal. It keeps things inside or outside. Fences have posts that hold them up. Some fences are big, and some are small. You see fences in gardens and on farms. A fence is not like a wall because it does not sit on a solid bottom all the way.
Jordan\n\nJordan is a country in the Middle East. It is next to Syria, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Palestine, and Israel. The capital city is Amman. The Jordan River flows along its western side. Jordan has mountains in the north and south. The Dead Sea is the lowest place on Earth. People in Jordan speak Arabic. The king is named King Abdullah II. Most people are Muslim. The national food is mansaf. Soccer is a popular sport. Jordan has little oil, but it mines a lot of phosphate. The money used is called the Jordanian dinar.
Combustion\n\nCombustion is when something burns. When something burns, it gets very hot and can make light, like a flame. Car engines and rocket engines work by burning fuel. In a car, gas burns and explodes inside parts called pistons to make the car move. In a rocket, fuel explodes out of the back to push it up. Burning things can be bad for the air because it makes gases that are not good for the Earth. Some things, like hydrogen, burn cleanly but can be dangerous. For something to burn, it needs fuel, oxygen from the air, and heat. When there is lots of oxygen, the burning is complete and gives off more heat. When there is not enough oxygen, the burning is incomplete and can make smoke and a gas called carbon monoxide.
Chameleon\n\nA chameleon is a kind of lizard. Many chameleons can change the color of their skin to hide or to show how they feel. They have feet that look like parrot feet, with two toes on each side. Their eyes can move all by themselves, so they can look in two different directions at once. Chameleons have very long, sticky tongues that shoot out fast to catch bugs to eat. Their tails can grab onto branches. They live in warm places like Africa, Madagascar, and parts of Asia. Some people keep chameleons as pets. The smallest chameleon in the world is very tiny, only as long as a small bug.
Tool\n\nA tool is something that helps you do a job more easily. Hammers, knives, and pencils are all tools. Some tools you hold in your hand, like a hammer. Other tools use electricity to work, like a drill. People have used tools for a very long time, since the Stone Age.
Plantain\n\nA plantain is a fruit that looks like a banana but is bigger and harder. People usually cook plantains before eating them, unlike sweet bananas that you can eat raw. Plantains have less sugar than dessert bananas. They grow in warm places like Southeast Asia, Africa, and the Caribbean. People use plantains like potatoes in many dishes. The leaves of the plantain plant are very big and can be used as plates or to wrap food for cooking. The flowers and the shoot of the plant can also be eaten.
Yoga\n\nYoga is an old way of moving your body and breathing. It comes from a country called India. In yoga, you do special poses, like standing on one leg or sitting with your legs crossed. You also breathe in and out slowly. Yoga helps your body feel good and your mind feel happy. Some people do yoga in a class with a teacher. You can do yoga inside or outside. It is like a game that makes you strong and calm.
Impressionism\n\nImpressionism is a way of painting that started in France a long time ago. The painters used quick brushstrokes and bright colors to show how things looked at a certain moment. They liked to paint outside, like gardens, rivers, and people doing everyday things. One famous painter was Claude Monet. He made a painting called "Impression, Sunrise," and that is how the style got its name. At first, some people did not like these paintings and made fun of them. But over time, many people came to love them. Other impressionist painters include Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Edgar Degas, and Mary Cassatt. They painted things like ballet dancers, people having picnics, and boats on the water.
Benin\n\nBenin is a country in Africa. The capital city is Porto-Novo, but the biggest city is Cotonou. Most people live near the coast. The main language is French, but people also speak Fon and Yoruba. Benin has two rainy seasons and two dry seasons. It is hot and humid there. You can see elephants, lions, and monkeys in the parks. Benin used to be called Dahomey long ago. It became its own country in 1960.
Oman\n\nOman is a country in Asia, on the coast of the Arabian Sea. It is hot and sunny, with very little rain. The capital city is Muscat. The ruler is called a sultan, and the people are called Omanis. Omanis are known for being very friendly and welcoming to visitors.
Agave\n\nAgave is a plant with thick, sharp leaves. It comes from Mexico and the southwestern United States. An agave plant lives for a long time, sometimes 10 to 25 years. It only makes flowers one time, and then it dies. People use agave to make sweet syrup and a drink called tequila. Long ago, some Native American people ate agave as food.
Boomerang\n\nA boomerang is a special tool that you throw into the air and it comes back to you. Long ago, people made boomerangs from wood. Today, many boomerangs are made from other things. People in Australia used boomerangs to hunt for food. The oldest boomerang ever found is more than 20,000 years old and was found in a cave in Poland. That kind of boomerang did not come back, but it could fly far. Now, people throw boomerangs for fun. To throw a boomerang, you hold it up high and spin it hard. You must throw it almost straight up and a little to the side. If you throw it right, it will fly in a big circle and land near you. Most boomerangs are made for right-handed people. Left-handed people need a special boomerang. There are boomerang clubs in many countries where people play and have contests.
Guam\n\nGuam is an island in the Pacific Ocean. It is part of the United States, so people who live there are American citizens. The native people are called Chamorro. The capital city is Hagåtña, and the biggest city is Dededo. Guam has big military bases for the U.S. Air Force and Navy. Many people visit Guam on vacation, especially from Japan. They like the pretty white sand beaches and the water full of fish. Guam is warm and wet all year. Sometimes strong storms come in October and November. The money used in Guam is the U.S. dollar.
Federated States of Micronesia\n\nThe Federated States of Micronesia is a country made of many small islands in the big Pacific Ocean. It is near Papua New Guinea. The capital city is Palikir. Long ago, people lived there for thousands of years. Later, other countries ruled the islands. Now the people make their own rules, but the United States helps them. The islands have lots of fish and pretty water.
Philosophy\n\nPhilosophy is thinking about big questions. A person who does philosophy is called a philosopher. Philosophers ask questions like 'What is real?' and 'What is good?' They think about the world, life, and how to be kind. Some philosophers lived a long time ago in Greece, like Plato and Aristotle. Others came from Asia, like Confucius and Buddha. Philosophy helps people understand things better. It is like using your brain to solve puzzles about life.
Morality\n\nMorality is about knowing what is right and what is wrong. It helps you decide how to act. You can learn what is right from your mom and dad, your teachers, or from stories. Some stories end with a lesson called a moral. Doing the right thing is called being moral. Doing the wrong thing is called being immoral.
Cuisine\n\nCuisine is a word for how people cook and eat food. Different groups of people have their own special ways of cooking. The food they make depends on what grows near them and what they like to eat. For example, Italian people are known for their pasta and pizza. Long ago, people in Europe did not have tomatoes or corn because those foods came from far away places. Today, people all over the world share their cooking with each other.
Horseradish\n\nHorseradish is a tall plant with big green leaves. It grows a long white root underground. The root does not smell much until you cut or grate it. Then it makes a strong smell that can make your eyes water. People mix the grated root with vinegar to make a sauce. This sauce is often eaten with meat like roast beef. Horseradish has been grown for a very long time. It can spread a lot in a garden if you do not dig it up. The plant is not safe for horses to eat, even though its name sounds like 'horse.'
Herakles\n\nHerakles is a very strong and famous hero from old Greek stories. He is also called Hercules. His father was a god named Zeus, and his mother was a person. A goddess named Hera was angry at Herakles and made him do twelve very hard jobs called the Twelve Labors. He fought a big lion and wore its skin. He also fought a snake with many heads. Herakles was so strong that he could lift heavy things and beat monsters. He started the Olympic Games. After he died, he went to live with the gods on Mount Olympus.
Phoenix (mythology)\n\nA phoenix is a special bird from old stories. It is very beautiful and lives for many, many years. When it gets old, it makes a nest of wood and sets itself on fire. But from the ashes, a new baby phoenix is born. That is why people say the phoenix lives forever. The phoenix has red and gold feathers and is as big as an eagle. In some stories, the phoenix brings its father's body to a temple. In China, the phoenix is a sign of joy and happiness.
Translation\n\nTranslation is when you take words from one language and say them in another language. The people who do this are called translators. Some translators work with books and use a dictionary to find the right words. Others work with talking and are called interpreters. Translators can work by themselves or for a company. Some people translate stories and poems. Computers can also do translation, like Google Translate on the internet.
Habitat\n\nA habitat is the place where a plant or animal lives. It is the home that gives them food, water, and shelter. Different animals like different habitats. Frogs and ducks live in wet places like ponds because they have special feet for swimming. Some animals live in forests, some in deserts, and some in the ocean. Plants also have special homes. Cactus plants live in dry deserts and store water in their thick stems. Other plants with big leaves live in shady forests where they need to catch more sunlight. When a habitat changes too much, the animals and plants that live there may have to find a new home or they might not survive.
Futurism\n\nFuturism is a way of making art and thinking about the world that started a long time ago in a country called Italy. People who liked Futurism, called Futurists, loved fast things like cars and airplanes. They did not like old things and wanted to make everything new and exciting. They made paintings, buildings, clothes, and even music that felt fast and full of energy. Some Futurists also helped make new kinds of art that we still see today, like in movies and cartoons.
Baku\n\nBaku is a big city next to the Caspian Sea. It is the capital of a country called Azerbaijan. Baku is special because it sits below the level of the sea. Many people live there. The city has an old part with small streets and old buildings. There is a lot of oil under the ground near Baku. People in Baku like to play chess and watch football games.
Crane (machine)\n\nA crane is a big machine that can lift heavy things up and down. It has a long arm and strong ropes. Cranes help build tall buildings and houses. They can also move big things from one place to another.
Clothing\n\nClothing is what people wear to cover their bodies. People are the only animals that wear clothes. Clothes keep us safe from the sun, dust, cold, and rain. In cold places, people wear thick coats and boots to stay warm. Clothes are also worn to look nice or to show what we like. Different people in different places wear different clothes. Most clothes are made from fabric sewn together, but some are made from animal skins. We wear shirts on our top, pants or skirts on our legs, gloves on our hands, shoes on our feet, and hats on our heads. People have been wearing clothes for a very long time, maybe more than 100,000 years.
Gravitational wave\n\nGravitational waves are like ripples in space that happen when big, heavy things move very fast. A smart man named Albert Einstein said they would be there a long time ago. In 2015, scientists found them for the first time using a special machine called LIGO. The waves came from two black holes crashing into each other. Black holes are very heavy things in space that even light cannot get out of. When two black holes or two neutron stars smash together, they make gravitational waves that travel through space like waves in water. These waves are very hard to find because they are tiny. Scientists use long pipes with lasers inside to measure them. The waves also help make heavy things like gold and platinum.
Tour de France\n\nThe Tour de France is a big bicycle race that happens every summer in France. It started a long time ago, in 1903. The race goes all around France and sometimes into other countries like England, Belgium, or Spain. It lasts about three weeks. Each day, the fastest rider gets a yellow shirt to wear. The best sprinter gets a green shirt, and the best rider in the mountains gets a polka dot shirt. The youngest good rider, under 26 years old, gets a white shirt. At the end, the winner is the one who rode the fastest all the way to Paris, past the Eiffel Tower.
Yoruba language\n\nThe Yoruba language is a way of talking that people use in West Africa. Many people speak it in Nigeria, Benin, and Togo. Some people also speak it in other parts of Africa, Europe, and the Americas. It is one of the languages spoken by many people.
Cicada\n\nA cicada is a small insect that makes a loud buzzing noise. The male cicada buzzes to call a female. The female cicada cannot buzz, so she listens for the male. After they mate, the female lays eggs in a tree branch. Cicadas are usually green or black. They live in warm places all over the world. Some cicadas come out every year, and some come out every 13 or 17 years. People in some countries eat cicadas.
Monarchy\n\nA monarchy is a kind of country where one person, called a monarch, is the leader. A monarch can be a king or a queen. The monarch usually gets the job from their family, like a father passing it to his son or daughter. Some monarchs have a lot of power and make all the rules. Other monarchs have less power and mostly do special ceremonies, while the people vote for other leaders to make the laws. Many countries like the United Kingdom, Japan, and Denmark have a king or queen today. Some people like having a royal family because it is a tradition and brings visitors to the country.
Hurdling\n\nHurdling is a running race where you jump over things called hurdles. The hurdles are like tall gates you have to leap over. People run very fast and jump over ten hurdles in the race. Some races are short, like 60 meters, and some are long, like 400 meters. Hurdling is a sport in the Olympic Games.
Earwig\n\nAn earwig is a small insect with a flat body. It is dark brown, red, or black. An earwig has six legs, two antennae on its head, and little pinchers on its bottom. The pinchers help it grab food. Male earwigs have curved pinchers, and females have straight ones. Earwigs live in damp, shady places like under leaves or in fallen trees. They can also be found in basements or bathrooms. Earwigs eat plants, pollen, fruit, and sometimes small bugs like spiders and flies. They have a bad smell, so birds do not like to eat them.
Hospital\n\nA hospital is a big building where people go when they are very sick or hurt. Doctors and nurses work there to help people get better. Some people stay overnight in a bed, and those are called inpatients. Other people come for a visit and go home the same day. Hospitals have special machines and tools to help fix broken bones or fight sickness. Long ago, hospitals were run by churches. Today, hospitals get money from the government, from people who pay for their care, or from charity.
El Dorado\n\nEl Dorado is a make-believe city in South America. A long time ago, people told a story about a king who was covered in gold dust. The king would go to a lake and throw gold and pretty stones into the water. When Spanish people came to South America, they tried to find this golden city, but it was only a legend and not real.
Vietnamese language\n\nVietnamese is the language people speak in Vietnam. It is the official language of that country. Vietnamese uses a special way of saying words where the pitch of your voice changes the meaning. Many Vietnamese words came from Chinese a long time ago. Today, Vietnamese is written with letters like the English alphabet, but with extra marks on top of some letters. These marks tell you how to say the word. People in different parts of Vietnam speak a little differently. The way people talk in the north sounds different from the way people talk in the south. Some words in Vietnamese come from French, like "cà phê" for coffee, and from English, like "tivi" for TV. When you learn Vietnamese, you call older people "anh" for big brother or "chị" for big sister, even if they are not your family.
Curse\n\nA curse is a word that says someone will have bad luck. Some people think curses can come true by magic. In fairy tales, a witch might curse a prince to turn into a frog or a beast. But a princess can save him. A long time ago, Romans wrote curses on tablets and let them float in the river. People make curses when they are jealous. The opposite of a curse is a blessing.
Lake Superior\n\nLake Superior is a very big lake in Canada and the United States. It is the biggest lake of fresh water in the world by how much space it covers. The Ojibwe people call it Gitchigume. Many kinds of fish live in it, more than 80 different types. Boats carry heavy rocks called iron ore through special locks to other lakes.
Mariana Trench\n\nThe Mariana Trench is the deepest place in the ocean. It is a long, narrow crack in the sea floor, deeper than any mountain is tall. The trench is near the Mariana Islands, far out in the Pacific Ocean. The very deepest part is called the Challenger Deep. The water there is very, very deep and the pressure is huge. A few special boats called submersibles have gone down to the bottom. They found some small animals living there, like sea cucumbers, worms, and shrimp. The trench was made when two big pieces of the Earth's crust pushed together.
Movie\n\nA movie is a story told with pictures and sounds. People watch movies to have fun or learn something. Movies can make you laugh, cry, or feel scared. You can watch a movie at a theater on a big screen or at home on a TV or computer. A movie camera takes many pictures very fast, and when they are shown quickly, the pictures look like they are moving. People called actors say words and do actions to tell the story. A director tells the actors what to do. After filming, an editor puts the pictures together to make the story. Sound is added later, like talking, music, and sound effects. Some movies are very popular and make a lot of money. Other movies are made by small groups with less money. Movies have ratings like G, PG, PG-13, and R to tell you if they are okay for kids.
Stomach\n\nYour stomach is a soft bag inside your belly. It is part of your body that helps you eat food. When you eat, food goes into your stomach. Your stomach squeezes and mixes the food with special juices. These juices help break the food into tiny pieces. Then the food goes to the next part of your body to give you energy. Sometimes your stomach can hurt if you eat too much or if the juices come back up. That is called heartburn. When you are sick, food can come back up and out of your mouth. That is called throwing up.
Shovel\n\nA shovel is a tool for moving things like dirt, snow, or rocks. It has a flat metal part on the bottom and a long handle. You can use it to scoop up loose stuff and carry it somewhere else. A shovel is not as good for digging as a spade, but it works well for moving piles of material.
Sphinx\n\nA sphinx is a make-believe animal from old stories. It has the head of a person, the body of a lion, and the wings of an eagle. In Greek stories, a sphinx was mean and ate people. It asked a riddle, and if you got it wrong, it would eat you. In Egyptian stories, a sphinx was kind and guarded special places. Big stone sphinx statues stand near old buildings and pyramids. The most famous sphinx is in Egypt and has a man's head and a lion's body.
Japanese food\n\nJapanese food is food from Japan. It has many different kinds of dishes. Soya beans are very important in Japanese cooking. They are used to make soya sauce, tofu, and miso. Tofu is made from soya beans and is soft and white. It is often put in soups. Noodles are also used a lot in Japanese food. They come in long strings and are eaten in hot soup or with sauce. Japan is near the ocean, so there is lots of fish and seafood. Sashimi is raw fish cut into thin pieces. It is eaten with soya sauce. Wasabi is a green paste that tastes very spicy. It is eaten with sushi and sashimi. Seaweed is also used in many Japanese dishes, like in soups and wrapped around rice.
Glove\n\nA glove is a piece of clothing that covers your hand. There are many kinds of gloves. Thick gloves keep your hands warm in cold weather. Thin gloves made of rubber or plastic keep your hands clean. Some workers wear heavy rubber gloves to protect their hands from bad stuff. A mitten is a glove that has a spot for your thumb but puts all your other fingers together. Some gloves are worn to look nice, and they can be made of leather or fur. People also wear gloves in sports like baseball and soccer to help them hold things better.
Tiger shark\n\nA tiger shark is a very big fish that lives in the ocean. It has black spots and stripes on its body, like a tiger. Tiger sharks can grow as long as a car and weigh as much as a small elephant. They have big, sharp teeth that help them eat fish, seals, and even sea turtles. Tiger sharks like to swim in warm, shallow water near the shore. They hunt at night and rest during the day. Baby tiger sharks are born alive, and a mother can have up to 82 babies at once. Tiger sharks are one of the most dangerous sharks to people, but they do not attack very often.
Pennsylvania\n\nPennsylvania is a state in the United States of America. It is in the northeastern part of the country. The biggest city in Pennsylvania is Philadelphia. The state capital is Harrisburg. Pennsylvania has many forests and hills. Long ago, people from Sweden were the first to live there. Later, a man named William Penn started a place for people to live. The state is named after him. Pennsylvania was one of the first 13 colonies. The Declaration of Independence was signed in Philadelphia. Today, many people live in Pennsylvania, especially near the cities of Philadelphia and Pittsburgh.
Sea otter\n\nA sea otter is a furry animal that lives in the ocean. It has very thick fur, with more hairs than any other animal. Sea otters live in the Pacific Ocean near North America. They eat shellfish like clams and sea urchins. Sea otters use rocks to smash open shells, which makes them one of the few animals that use tools. They carry a favorite rock in a pouch under their arm. Long ago, people hunted sea otters for their fur, and almost all of them died. Now they are coming back in some places. Sea otters help keep the ocean healthy by eating sea urchins, which can eat too much seaweed called kelp. When sea otters are around, the kelp forests grow big and give homes to fish and other animals.
Oil well\n\nAn oil well is a deep hole in the ground where people get oil. Workers find a place that might have oil and drill a big hole. Then they pump the oil up from the hole. Most oil is very deep underground. People have used oil for a very long time, even thousands of years ago. They used it for medicine and to make things burn. Today, oil wells help us get oil for cars and many other things.
Budgerigar\n\nA budgerigar is a small bird with colorful feathers. It is a kind of parrot. Budgies live in dry parts of Australia. People keep them as pets at home. They are smart and can learn to copy words that people say. A budgie has a long tail and can be green, yellow, blue, or white.
Falkland Islands\n\nThe Falkland Islands are a group of islands in the South Atlantic Ocean, near South America. They are far away from other land, about 300 miles east of Argentina. The islands belong to the United Kingdom, but Argentina says they belong to them. The two biggest islands are East Falkland and West Falkland. About 3,400 people live there. They speak English and are British. The people make money by fishing and raising sheep for wool. The islands are cold, windy, and rainy a lot. There are many hills and mountains. The biggest town is called Stanley. The islands have a special bird called the Falkland Islands' own bird, and there are many penguins too.
Natural selection\n\nNatural selection is how animals and plants change over a very long time. Some animals have special features that help them stay alive. For example, a moth that is the same color as a tree can hide from birds. If an animal lives longer because of its special feature, it can have more babies. The babies get the same special feature from their parents. Over many years, more and more animals have that feature. This is how living things get better at living in their home. A famous example is the peppered moth. Long ago, most moths were light colored and could hide on light trees. When factories made the trees dark, dark moths could hide better. So more dark moths lived and had babies. Later, when the trees got clean again, light moths became more common again. Another example is when medicine kills germs, but some germs have a special feature that keeps them alive. Those germs can then make more germs that are hard to kill. Natural selection was thought of by two men named Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace.
Organism\n\nAn organism is any living thing. Animals and plants are organisms. Organisms need air, water, food, and a place to live. They grow, use energy, and make more of themselves. Some organisms are big, like a dog or a tree. Most organisms are so small you need a microscope to see them. These tiny ones are called microorganisms. Some organisms are made of just one cell, like bacteria. Others are made of many cells, like you.
Human eye\n\nThe human eye is a round part of your body that helps you see. It works like a little ball. Light goes into the front of your eye. The front part is clear and lets light pass through. Inside, a special part called the lens bends the light. The light hits the back of the eye, which is like a screen. That screen sends a message to your brain. Your brain turns the message into a picture. That is how you see things. The eye also has a clear liquid inside that keeps it round and healthy.
Poinsettia\n\nA poinsettia is a plant with red and green leaves. It is very popular at Christmas time. It grows in Mexico and Central America. The poinsettia needs long nights to make its red leaves. Gardeners can trick the plant by keeping it in the dark for many hours each day. That way it turns red even when it is not Christmas.
Mecca\n\nMecca is a city in a country called Saudi Arabia. It is a very special city for people who follow Islam. Every year, many people travel to Mecca for a trip called the Hajj. In Mecca, there is a big square building called the Kaaba. People who follow Islam face the Kaaba when they pray. The city is in a sandy valley and is not near the ocean. Only people who follow Islam can go into Mecca.
Sail\n\nA sail is a big piece of cloth on top of some boats. The wind pushes the sail and makes the boat move across the water. The sail is attached to a tall pole called a mast. Some boats have one sail, and some have many sails. Boats with sails are called sailing boats. Long ago, people used sailing boats to travel across oceans. Today, people use them for fun and races.
Arctic\n\nThe Arctic is the cold area around the top of the Earth, near the North Pole. It is mostly an ocean covered with ice. In summer, the sun never sets there, so people call it the "Land of the Midnight Sun." The land in the Arctic is called tundra, which is a cold, flat place with no trees. Only small plants like moss, grass, and tiny flowers grow there. The ground has a layer of ice underneath called permafrost, so water from melting snow stays on top and makes puddles and lakes. Polar bears live in the Arctic. They are big, white bears that can swim very well and eat seals and fish. Arctic foxes follow the bears to eat leftover food. Caribou and reindeer also live there. They eat grass and lichen and move south in winter. Many birds come to the Arctic in summer to raise their babies. People called the Sami (or Lapps) live in the Arctic too. They raise reindeer for food, clothes, and tents.
Dew\n\nDew is tiny drops of water that you can see on grass and leaves in the morning. At night, the ground and plants get cold. When the air around them gets cold too, the water in the air turns into little drops on the grass. That is dew. If it gets very cold, the dew turns into frost. Dew forms best when the air is clean and still. You can also see something like dew when your glasses get steamy in a warm room.
Tern\n\nA tern is a bird that lives near the sea, rivers, or wet places. It has a thin body, long wings, a forked tail, a long bill, and short legs. Most terns are light gray on top and white below, with a black cap on their head. They lay eggs on the ground in big noisy groups. Some terns make floating nests in wet places. Most terns eat fish that they catch by diving into the water. Some terns eat bugs. Many terns fly very far to find warm places in winter.
Human settlement\n\nA human settlement is a place where people live. Some people live there all the time, and some live there only for a little while. When people move to a new place to live, it is called settling. A settlement can be a small group of houses, a village, a town, or a big city. Some people called nomads move from place to place and do not settle.
Pneumonia\n\nPneumonia is a sickness in your lungs. Your lungs have tiny air bags that help you get air. When you have pneumonia, these bags get red and sore and fill with yucky liquid. This makes it hard to breathe. You might cough or feel pain in your chest. Germs like bacteria or viruses can cause pneumonia. Doctors can give you medicine to help you get better. Some people get very sick from pneumonia, especially very old people and babies. But many people get better with good care.
Portugal\n\nPortugal is a country in Europe. It sits next to the Atlantic Ocean and Spain. The capital city is Lisbon. Many people visit Portugal for holidays, especially the sunny Algarve region and Lisbon. Portugal has a football team and won a big song contest in 2017. The country has islands in the ocean called the Azores and Madeira. People in Portugal speak Portuguese. Long ago, Portugal had a big empire with lands like Brazil and parts of Africa. In 1974, a peaceful revolution called the Carnation Revolution changed the government. Portugal joined the European Union in 1986.
Pigment\n\nA pigment is something that gives color to other things. Some pigments come from plants, animals, rocks, or dirt. People can also make pigments. For example, a blue pigment called ultramarine is a powder that comes from nature. It is used to make blue paint and blue dye for clothes. Long ago, a man made a new pigment that turned clothes a pretty purple color.
Writer\n\nA writer is a person who makes stories, books, or articles for other people to read. Some writers write make-believe stories, and some write about real things. Writers use words to share ideas and pictures in your mind. Many writers work on one kind of writing, like stories, poems, or news.
Skeleton\n\nA skeleton is the hard part inside your body that holds everything up. It is made of many bones joined together. The skeleton protects your brain, heart, and lungs. Without a skeleton, your body would be flat like a pancake. The bones in your head are called the skull. Your spine is a long line of small bones that helps you bend and move. Your ribs are curved bones that protect your heart and lungs. Your arms and legs have big bones at the top and smaller bones at the bottom. Your hands and feet have lots of little bones. A skeleton can also be a picture that means danger or poison.
Uganda\n\nUganda is a country in Africa. It is far from the ocean, so it is called landlocked. Uganda shares its borders with five other countries: Congo, Kenya, South Sudan, Rwanda, and Tanzania. The biggest city is Kampala, and that is also the capital. Many people in Uganda speak English and Swahili. Most people are Christian. The president is Yoweri Kaguta Museveni. Uganda has many big lakes, like Lake Victoria and Lake Kyoga. The weather is warm, and it rains a lot in the south. People grow food like coffee and tea to sell to other countries. Football is the most popular sport, and many people love to watch the national team play.
Journalism\n\nJournalism is a job about telling people what is happening in the world. People who do this job are called journalists. They write stories for newspapers, talk on TV news, or speak on the radio. Journalists find out true facts and share them with everyone. They try to be fair and tell the truth.
Surveillance\n\nSurveillance is when someone watches other people or listens to what they say. Sometimes it is done in secret. People might use cameras to watch a place, or they might listen to phone calls. Governments and police do this to keep people safe and stop bad things from happening. Some people also do it to get information. It is like being a very quiet spy.
Vacuum cleaner\n\nA vacuum cleaner is a machine that sucks up dirt and dust from floors. It uses air to pull the dirt into a bag or a can inside. You can dump the dirt into the trash later. Some vacuum cleaners are big and you push them around. Others are small and you hold them in your hand. Vacuum cleaners help keep your house clean.
Mallard\n\nA mallard is a kind of duck that lives in many places around the world. It is the most common duck you can see. Mallards live near water like ponds, lakes, and rivers, even in cities. The male mallard has a shiny green head and a yellow bill. The female mallard is brown with an orange bill. Both have a special blue patch on their wings. Mallards are big ducks with long bodies and wide bills. They like to swim and eat plants and small bugs.
Algeria\n\nAlgeria is a big country in North Africa. It is the second biggest country in Africa. The capital city is Algiers, which is in the north. Most people live in the north because the land is good for growing food. The south is mostly the Sahara Desert, which is very hot and dry. Algeria has mountains, and the highest one is Mount Tahat. People in Algeria speak Arabic and Berber. Many also speak French. Most people are Muslims. Algeria has a lot of oil and gas, which makes it one of the richest countries in Africa. Long ago, different groups like the Romans and Arabs ruled Algeria. France ruled for a long time, but Algeria became free in 1962.
Hour\n\nAn hour is a way to measure time. One hour is as long as sixty minutes. A whole day has twenty-four hours. We use hours to know when to wake up, eat lunch, and go to bed.
Spider monkey\n\nA spider monkey is a small monkey that lives in trees in the rainforest. It has very long arms and legs and a long tail that is longer than its body. The tail is like a fifth hand — it can grab things and swing from branches. Spider monkeys move fast by swinging and jumping from tree to tree. They almost never come down to the ground. They live in groups of 10 to 40 monkeys. Each group stays in its own part of the forest. A mother spider monkey has one baby each year. They eat fruit, nuts, leaves, and sometimes small eggs. The leader of the group is a female who finds food for everyone.
Lion\n\nA lion is a big wild cat with a yellowish-brown coat. Male lions have a big hairy mane around their head. Lions live in grasslands and places with trees in Africa and a small part of India. They live in groups called prides. A pride has mommy lions, their babies, and one or two daddy lions. Lions are very strong and eat meat like zebras and antelopes. The mommy lions do most of the hunting. They work together to catch food. Lions have a loud roar that can be heard far away. Baby lions are called cubs. Cubs are born blind and learn to walk after a few weeks. Lions are called the king of the beasts because they are brave and strong.
Tagalog language\n\nTagalog is a language that people speak in the Philippines. More than 22 million people speak it as their first language. Many other people in the Philippines use it to talk to each other. Tagalog used to be written with a special alphabet called Baybayin, but now people write it with the same letters we use in English. The Philippines has two main languages: Tagalog and English.
Great Victoria Desert\n\nThe Great Victoria Desert is a very big, dry, and sandy place in Australia. It is the largest desert in Australia. The ground has sand dunes, small hills, flat grass areas, and salty lakes. It is very hot and gets only a little rain each year. Aboriginal people have lived there for a very long time, more than 24,000 years. Even though it is dry, some animals live there, like kangaroos, wallabies, lizards, and many birds. These animals know how to stay safe in the hot days and cold nights.
Birch\n\nA birch tree is a tall tree with thin leaves that fall off in autumn. It has white bark that peels off like paper. Birch trees grow in many cold places around the world. Some birch trees are short and live only a few years. The bark of a birch tree is very special because it is white and smooth.
Sea ice\n\nSea ice is frozen ocean water. It grows in winter and melts in summer. Sea ice is salty, so it is heavier and easier to break than ice from a drink. It has tiny pockets of salt water and air bubbles inside, so light cannot go through it easily. This keeps the sea below cool and stops tiny plants from growing. When the ice melts, more light gets through and the plants grow. Many animals like seals and polar bears live on sea ice. People who live in the Arctic travel on sea ice and hunt for food. Sea ice is very shiny and bounces sunlight back into space, which keeps the poles cold. The Earth is getting warmer, so sea ice is melting faster. Scientists use satellites to watch the ice from space.
Antibiotics\n\nAntibiotics are special medicines that kill tiny germs called bacteria or stop them from growing. They help your body get better when you are sick from bacteria. But antibiotics cannot kill viruses, so they do not help if you have a cold or the flu. The first antibiotic was found by a scientist named Alexander Fleming in 1928. He saw that a mold could kill bacteria. Today, doctors give antibiotics to people who have bacterial infections. It is important to take all of the medicine, even if you start to feel better, because some bacteria might still be alive and become stronger.
Hua Mulan\n\nHua Mulan is a brave woman from old stories in China. She took her father's place in the army because he was too old to fight. She learned to use a sword and practiced kung fu. Mulan fought in the war for twelve years and became very famous. After the war, she did not want any reward. She just wanted to go back home to her family.
River delta\n\nA river delta is a piece of land shaped like a triangle. It forms where a river meets the ocean. The river carries mud and sand. When the water slows down, the mud and sand drop to make new land. Over time, the land grows into fingers with water in between. Plants grow on the dry parts. Some deltas are very big, covering many miles. The name "delta" comes from a Greek letter that looks like a triangle.
Chronology\n\nChronology is about time. It helps us put things in the order they happened. When you tell a story from the beginning to the end, that is chronological order. A timeline is a line that shows when things happened. Chronology helps us know what came first and what came next.
Eyeglasses\n\nEyeglasses are pieces of glass or clear plastic called lenses that sit in a frame in front of your eyes. They help some people see better. If you have trouble seeing far away or up close, glasses can make things look clear. Some glasses keep your eyes safe, like goggles that stop things from hitting your eyes. Sunglasses have dark lenses to keep too much sun out of your eyes. Some glasses have yellow lenses to block blue light from computers and TVs. People also wear glasses to look nice. Glasses come in many shapes and colors.
Rock and roll\n\nRock and roll is a kind of music that started a long time ago in the 1950s. It mixes different types of music like country, blues, and jazz. At first, only some people listened to it, but soon many young people loved it. The music has a strong beat and makes you want to dance. Some famous rock and roll singers were Elvis Presley, Chuck Berry, and Little Richard. Later, in the 1960s, groups like The Beatles and The Beach Boys became very popular. Rock and roll changed over time, and new styles like heavy metal and punk rock came along. People still listen to rock and roll today.
Natural number\n\nNatural numbers are the numbers you use when you count things. You start with 1, then 2, 3, and so on. There is no biggest natural number because you can always add 1 to get a bigger one. Natural numbers are always whole numbers, and they do not include zero.
Straits of Florida\n\nThe Straits of Florida is a narrow water path between the Florida Keys and Cuba. It is like a big water road that connects the Gulf of Mexico to the Atlantic Ocean. Boats and ships travel through this strait to go from one big water place to another.
Flowering plant\n\nA flowering plant is a plant that grows flowers and fruits. Most plants on land are flowering plants. Flowers can be many colors and smell sweet. They make nectar, which is a sweet drink for insects and birds. When an insect or bird visits a flower, it helps the plant make seeds. The seeds are inside the fruit. Fruits grow from the flower and can be eaten by animals. Animals carry the seeds to new places, and new plants grow there. Some flowering plants are grasses. Grasses do not need insects to help them. The wind blows their seeds around. Flowering plants grow almost everywhere on Earth, except in very cold forests where pine trees live.
Orange River\n\nThe Orange River is a very long river in Southern Africa. It starts in the Drakensberg mountains and flows through South Africa and Namibia. The river is used to water plants and make electricity. It was named after a Dutch royal family.
Edda\n\nEdda is a name for two old books with stories about Viking gods and goddesses. These books were written a long time ago by people in Iceland. The stories tell about gods like Odin and Thor. But the people who wrote the books did not believe in those gods, so they changed some parts of the stories to make the gods seem silly. The name Edda might come from a place called Oddi, where the writers lived.
English literature\n\nEnglish literature is all the stories, poems, and plays written in the English language. Many people around the world read English books. Long ago, a poem called Beowulf was written in Old English, which sounds very different from how we talk today. Later, a man named Geoffrey Chaucer wrote funny stories called The Canterbury Tales. William Shakespeare wrote many famous plays, like Hamlet, which has the line 'To be, or not to be.' The King James Bible was also written in English. Over time, writers like Charles Dickens and Jane Austen wrote stories that people still love. English literature comes from many countries, not just England.
Perspective (graphical)\n\nPerspective is a way to draw pictures so they look real. When you draw something far away, you make it smaller. When you draw something close, you make it bigger. This helps your eyes think the picture has depth, like a real place. Long ago, a man named Filippo Brunelleschi first showed how to do this. Artists use perspective to make flat paper look like a window into a world.
Uranus\n\nUranus is a big planet far away from the Sun. It is the seventh planet from the Sun. Uranus is made of ice, gas, and liquid metal. The planet is very cold. Uranus is tilted on its side, so it spins sideways. Nobody knows why. It takes 84 Earth years for Uranus to go around the Sun once. A day on Uranus is only 17 hours long. Uranus has 27 moons. The five biggest moons are Miranda, Ariel, Umbriel, Titania, and Oberon. They are named after characters from stories. Uranus also has 13 rings around it. The rings are made of ice and dark stuff. The planet looks blue because of gas in its air. In 1986, a spaceship called Voyager 2 flew by Uranus and took pictures.
Sparrowhawk\n\nA sparrowhawk is a small bird that hunts other birds. It has short, wide wings and a long tail to fly between trees. The male has a blue-grey back and orange stripes on his chest. The female is bigger and has brown back and wings with brown stripes. Sparrowhawks eat small birds like sparrows and finches. The males catch smaller birds, and females catch bigger ones like thrushes. They live in Europe, Asia, and Africa. Some fly south for winter. They build a nest of twigs in the woods. The female lays four or five pale blue eggs. The chicks hatch after 33 days and leave the nest about a month later. Most sparrowhawks live about four years. Long ago, chemicals on seeds hurt sparrowhawks, but now those chemicals are banned and there are many sparrowhawks again. People have used sparrowhawks for hunting for over 500 years.
Sign language\n\nSign language is a way of talking with your hands and body. People who cannot hear use sign language to talk to each other. Instead of using sounds from the mouth, they use hand shapes and movements. You watch with your eyes to understand. Many different sign languages exist around the world. Each country may have its own. Some signs look like what they mean, but many you just have to learn. Sign language has its own rules, just like spoken language. Some people also use fingerspelling to spell out words letter by letter.
Shoe\n\nA shoe is something you wear on your foot. You wear shoes outside to keep your feet safe and clean. Shoes come in pairs, one for each foot. You usually wear socks with shoes. Some shoes are for running and are light and soft. Slippers are soft shoes you wear inside to keep your feet warm. Boots are tall shoes that cover more of your leg. Rubber boots keep your feet dry in wet places. Some shoes are fancy, like high heels or shiny leather shoes for special events.
American Museum of Natural History\n\nThe American Museum of Natural History is a big place where you can learn about science. It is in New York City. The museum has many rooms with things to see, like dinosaur bones, rocks, and animals. Scientists work there to study nature and space. You can visit with your family and see how big the dinosaurs were.
Ireland\n\nIreland is a big island in the ocean. It is long and wide. Two countries live on the island: the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. The Republic of Ireland has a big city called Dublin. Most people there speak English. Northern Ireland has a big city called Belfast. A famous ship called the Titanic was built in Belfast. Ireland has green fields and many farms. It rains a lot, so the grass is very green. People in Ireland like to play soccer and Gaelic games. Long ago, many Irish people moved to other countries like the United States and Canada. Today, many people around the world have family from Ireland.
Seabird\n\nA seabird is a bird that lives near the sea or far out on the ocean. These birds are good at finding food in the water, like fish and small sea animals. Many seabirds only come to land to have babies. They live together in big groups on islands or cliffs. Seabirds live a long time and take good care of their babies. Some seabirds fly very far every year to find warm places. They can dive into the water to catch food.
Ecology\n\nEcology is about how living things and their homes work together. It looks at all the plants, animals, and tiny bugs in a place, and how they help each other. Scientists who study this are called ecologists. They watch how animals find food and water, and how plants grow. A group of the same kind of animal living in one place is called a population. When there is lots of food, the population gets bigger. When food is hard to find, the population gets smaller. All the different animals and plants in one place make a community. The community and its home together are called an ecosystem. In an ecosystem, energy moves from plants to animals that eat them. Plants get energy from the sun. Animals that eat plants get energy from the plants. Animals that eat other animals get energy from them. Everything in an ecosystem is connected.
Weather\n\nWeather is what the sky and air are doing right now. It can be sunny, rainy, windy, or snowy. The Sun gives heat that makes weather happen. When the air gets warm, it rises up. When it cools, water falls as rain or snow. People check the weather to know what to wear. Some weather is very strong, like big storms or hurricanes. Scientists called weather watchers use computers to guess what the weather will be tomorrow.
Executive (government)\n\nThe executive is the part of the government that runs the country every day. It makes sure the laws are followed. The leader of the executive is called the head of government, like a president or prime minister. This leader has helpers called ministers who take care of different things, like schools or hospitals. All these people work together to keep the country going.
Hypnosis\n\nHypnosis is a special way of thinking where a person feels very relaxed and can pay close attention to one thing. A person called a hypnotist talks to another person in a calm voice to help them go into this relaxed state. While in this state, the person can be told to do things like forget their name or feel hot, and they might do it. Hypnosis can be used to help people feel better when they are scared or sad. It can also be done by one person alone, called self-hypnosis. Long ago, people in many places used chants and music to make someone feel like they were in a trance.
Wasp\n\nA wasp is a small flying insect with a thin waist and two pairs of wings. Wasps look smooth and shiny, not fuzzy like bees. Many wasps have black and yellow stripes. They live in nests made of paper that they chew from wood. A queen wasp starts the nest in spring and lays eggs. Worker wasps feed the baby wasps chewed-up insects. Adult wasps drink sweet nectar from flowers. Some wasps live alone and build nests out of mud. They catch spiders and bugs to feed their babies. Wasps can sting if they feel scared, but they usually leave you alone. A few people get very sick from wasp stings and need a doctor.
Paraguay\n\nParaguay is a small country in South America. It is not next to the ocean. It sits next to Brazil, Bolivia, and Argentina. The capital city is Asuncion. Many people there speak Spanish and another language called Guaran. The weather is wet in the east and dry in the west. Most people are Catholic. Paraguay used to be ruled by Spain, but now it is its own country.
Catholic Church\n\nThe Catholic Church is a big group of people who follow Jesus. It is the largest Christian church in the world, with more than one billion members. The church started about 2,000 years ago when Jesus taught people. The leader of the Catholic Church is called the Pope. The Pope lives in a tiny country called Vatican City, inside the city of Rome, Italy. Catholics believe the first Pope was Saint Peter, a friend of Jesus. Catholics go to a special meeting called Mass on Sundays. They pray using beads called a Rosary. They also honor Mary, the mother of Jesus, very much. The church runs many schools and hospitals to help people.
Simple machine\n\nA simple machine is a tool that helps you push or pull things more easily. It can change the way a force works. There are six kinds: lever, wheel and axle, pulley, inclined plane, wedge, and screw. A lever is like a seesaw. A wheel and axle help a car move. A pulley helps lift heavy things up. An inclined plane is a ramp. A wedge is like a knife. A screw holds things together. People have used simple machines for a very long time. When you put two or more simple machines together, you get a compound machine.
Limestone\n\nLimestone is a kind of rock that comes from the bottom of the sea. It is made from tiny shells and bones of sea animals that lived a long time ago. Limestone can be white, gray, or yellow. It is hard but soft enough to cut into blocks. People use limestone to build houses, churches, and banks. They also use it to make glass and cement. Sometimes you can see fossils in limestone, which are the shapes of old animals and plants. When limestone gets very hot and squeezed, it turns into marble.
Lute\n\nA lute is a musical instrument with strings. It has a round back made of thin strips of wood and a flat front. The front has a pretty hole in the middle called a rose. People play the lute by picking or strumming the strings with their fingers or a pick. Long ago, lutes came to Europe from faraway lands. The lute is like a great-grandparent of the guitar. Today, people still play lutes in Greece, Turkey, and Arabic countries.
Timor Sea\n\nThe Timor Sea is a big, not very deep body of water. It sits between the island of Timor and Australia. The sea has many reefs and empty islands. In 2009, there was a big oil spill there. The only big city by the Timor Sea is Darwin, in Australia. Many rivers flow into it. The sea is about 480 kilometers wide. Some early people may have crossed this sea to get to Australia.
Pet\n\nA pet is an animal that lives with people at home. People do not make pets work or eat them. Pets are kept for fun and to be friends. Dogs and cats are very common pets. Fish, hamsters, guinea pigs, mice, rats, and rabbits are also pets. Some people keep birds or even tarantulas and hermit crabs as pets. If no one can take care of a pet, it may go to a special place called an animal shelter. There, people try to find a new home for the pet.
Windmill\n\nA windmill is a tall machine with big blades that spin in the wind. The wind pushes the blades around, and that makes the inside parts turn. Long ago, people used windmills to crush grain into flour for making bread. They also used them to pump water from the ground or to cut wood. Today, some windmills make electricity for our homes. The blades are covered with cloth or hard material. When the wind blows, the blades go round and round. A famous story tells about a man named Don Quixote who thought windmills were giants and tried to fight them.
Nose\n\nYour nose is the part of your face that helps you smell things and breathe. It is in the middle of your face. The nose has tiny parts inside that send messages to your brain about smells. Dogs have a much stronger nose than people do. Your nose can remember up to 50,000 different smells. The nose also cleans the air you breathe by taking out dust and germs. It warms the air so your lungs stay safe. When you have a cold, your nose gets stuffy and it is hard to breathe or sleep.
Trousers\n\nTrousers are clothes you wear on your legs. They cover each leg separately, unlike a skirt. You can wear them at your hips or waist. A belt or straps can hold them up. Long ago, only men wore trousers, but now women and girls wear them too.
Wig\n\nA wig is a fake hair covering that people put on their head. Some people wear wigs because they have no hair on their head. Actors wear wigs to look like different people in shows. Long ago, judges and lawyers wore wigs in court. Some musicians also wore wigs a long time ago.
Coconut palm\n\nA coconut palm is a very tall tree that grows near the ocean in hot places. It can grow as high as a big building. The tree has long leaves that are longer than a car. The fruit of this tree is called a coconut. Coconuts have a hard shell and white flesh inside that you can eat. People use coconut milk in cooking and drinks. They also use coconut oil for food, soap, and hair. The shell is hard and can be used to make crafts. Coconuts can float on water and travel to new islands to grow into new trees.
Holy Spirit\n\nThe Holy Spirit is a helper from God that Christians believe in. The Bible says the Holy Spirit helped make the Earth and the sky. A long time ago, the Holy Spirit helped a woman named Mary have a baby named Jesus. After Jesus went up to heaven, the Holy Spirit came to help his friends. It taught them and helped them tell other people about God. Some people feel the Holy Spirit when they pray.
Aladdin\n\nAladdin is a make-believe person from a very old story. In the story, a bad magician tricks Aladdin into going into a cave to get a magic lamp. Aladdin keeps the lamp and finds out a magic helper lives inside it. The magic helper can make any wish come true. With the helper, Aladdin gets rich and marries a princess. The bad magician comes back and steals the lamp. But Aladdin has a magic ring with another helper, and he gets the lamp back and saves the princess.
Eris (dwarf planet)\n\nEris is a dwarf planet far, far away in space. It is a big round rock that goes around the sun. Eris is a little smaller than Pluto but heavier. It takes a very long time to go around the sun — 557 Earth years! Eris has one small moon named Dysnomia. Scientists found Eris in 2005. They named it after a goddess from old stories. Eris is so far away that a spaceship would need 24 years to get there.
Old Testament\n\nThe Old Testament is the first part of the Bible. It was written before Jesus was born. It has many books about God and the people of Israel. The Old Testament tells that God made the world. It says God chose the people of Israel to be his special people. God gave them rules to follow, like being fair and helping others. The Old Testament also talks about good and bad things that happen. Many people believe these books are holy.
Senegal River\n\nThe Senegal River is a long river in West Africa. It is the line between two countries called Senegal and Mauritania. The river starts when two smaller rivers meet in a place called Bafoulab. The river flows past the city of Saint-Louis, which sits on an island. Near the end, a thin strip of sand called the Langue de Barbarie separates the river from the big ocean. Then the river goes into the Atlantic Ocean. There are two big dams on the river. One dam stops salt water from going too far into the land. The river is home to hippopotamuses, and long ago people called it by a name that means hippopotamus.
Lily of the valley\n\nLily of the valley is a plant with small white flowers that look like little bells. The flowers smell very sweet. This plant grows in Asia, Europe, and some parts of the United States. It blooms in late spring. But be careful — the whole plant is very poisonous, so you should never eat it.
Hungarian language\n\nHungarian is a language that people speak in Hungary and some other countries. About 13 million people speak Hungarian. Most of them live in Hungary, but some live in Romania, Slovakia, Serbia, Ukraine, and other places. The Hungarian name for the language is "Magyar." Hungarian is different from many other languages in Europe. It does not have words for "he" and "she" — it uses one word for both. Instead of words like "from" or "with," Hungarian puts little endings on words. For example, "from Budapest" becomes "Budapestről." Hungarian has 44 letters in its alphabet, more than the 26 letters in English. The writing is mostly phonetic, which means you can write a word the way it sounds. Hungarian is the official language of Hungary and one of the official languages of the European Union.
Ballista\n\nA ballista is a big weapon from long ago. It looks like a giant crossbow. The ballista shoots very large and heavy spears far away. It was one of the first catapults. The Ancient Greeks made the ballista around 400 BC. Some ballistae were small and shot arrows or darts. People used the ballista when they needed to shoot light, thin things.
Great Wall of China\n\nThe Great Wall of China is a very long wall in China. It was built a long time ago to keep the country safe from enemies. The wall is made of rocks, dirt, and bricks. It is so long that it goes on for many miles. Some parts of the wall are very old. Many people worked hard to build it. Today, people visit the Great Wall to see how big and strong it is.
Age of Discovery\n\nThe Age of Discovery was a time long ago when people from Europe sailed big ships to find new places. They wanted to find gold, silver, and spices. Famous explorers like Christopher Columbus and Ferdinand Magellan traveled across the ocean. Columbus thought he found Asia, but he found a new land called the Americas. Magellan's sailors were the first to sail all the way around the world. Explorers from Portugal, Spain, Britain, France, and the Netherlands all went on trips. They met new people and made maps of new lands. Some explorers, like Captain James Cook, found Australia and New Zealand. This time changed the world a lot.
Kharkiv\n\nKharkiv is a big city in Ukraine. It is the second biggest city in the country. Many people live there. The city was built a long time ago, in the year 1655. It has a university and a metro. During the war, Kharkiv was bombed.
Egypt\n\nEgypt is a country in Africa. It is next to the Mediterranean Sea and the Red Sea. The capital city is Cairo. Egypt is very famous for its old stone pyramids and the big statue called the Sphinx. Most of Egypt is hot desert. Many people live near the Nile River, which is a long river that flows through the country. The people in Egypt speak Arabic. Many people visit Egypt to see the pyramids and ride boats on the Nile.
Lima\n\nLima is a big city in the country of Peru. It is the capital, which means the government works there. Many people live in Lima, more than 8 million. Lima is near the ocean and has a big port where ships come in. The city was started a long time ago by a man named Francisco Pizarro. People in Lima speak Spanish. There are many fun things to see in Lima, like old buildings, museums, and good food to eat.
Channel Tunnel\n\nThe Channel Tunnel is a very long tunnel under the water between England and France. It is for trains only. Some trains carry cars and trucks, and other trains like the Eurostar carry people. The tunnel opened in 1994. It is 50 kilometers long and goes 75 meters under the sea. It connects Folkestone in England to Calais in France. Now a train can go from London to Paris in just over two hours.
Hot spring\n\nA hot spring is a pool of warm water that comes out of the ground. The water is heated by hot rocks deep inside the Earth. Hot springs are often found in mountains. The water feels warm or even hot to touch. Some people like to sit in hot springs because the warm water feels nice.
Devil\n\nThe Devil is a make-believe bad spirit in some stories and religions. People say he tries to trick people and make them do wrong things. Some pictures show him with red skin, horns, and a long tail. Other names for the Devil are Satan or the Dark God. Not everyone believes in the Devil. In some religions, the Devil is just a story to help people understand good and bad.
Budapest\n\nBudapest is a big city in Hungary. It is the capital city, which means it is the most important city in the country. About 1.7 million people live there. The city has two parts, Buda and Pest, with a big river called the Danube flowing between them. Budapest has many old buildings, like the Buda Castle on a hill and the big Parliament building by the river. There are also warm baths where people can swim in hot water. The city has a very old subway train, one of the oldest in Europe.
Georgia (country)\n\nGeorgia is a country near the Black Sea. It sits next to Russia, Turkey, Armenia, and Azerbaijan. Georgia has many tall mountains called the Caucasus Mountains. The highest mountain is Mount Shkhara. Many rivers flow through Georgia, and the biggest one is the Mtkvari. The capital city is Tbilisi, where about 1.2 million people live. People from Georgia are called Georgians. Most Georgians speak Georgian, and some speak Russian or other languages. Many Georgians are Orthodox Christians. The money used in Georgia is called the lari.
Islamic calendar\n\nThe Islamic calendar is a special way to count days and months. It uses the Moon to tell time. When the Moon looks like a thin smile in the sky, a new month starts. Each month has 29 or 30 days. A year in this calendar is 354 or 355 days long, which is shorter than the calendar most people use. Muslims use this calendar to know when their holidays happen. The first year of this calendar was when Prophet Muhammad moved from one city to another.
Vaccination\n\nA vaccination is a special medicine that helps your body stay strong and not get sick from a bad germ. Your body has a helper inside called the immune system. When you get a vaccination, it shows your immune system what the germ looks like, so your body can fight it fast if the real germ comes. Vaccines save many lives every year. When most people in a group get vaccinated, it also protects people who cannot get the vaccine, like very sick children or old people. This is called herd immunity. Vaccines can make your arm a little sore or give you a small fever, but that just means your body is learning. Doctors and scientists say vaccines are very safe and help keep everyone healthy.
Ibis\n\nAn ibis is a bird with very long legs and a long, curved beak. It lives near water and walks in mud to find food like small crabs and bugs. Ibises often eat together in groups. They build their nests up in trees. A long time ago, people in Egypt thought ibises were special. They made the birds into mummies and gave them to a god named Thoth, who had the head of an ibis. Scientists found many ibis mummies in old tombs. They learned that the Egyptians kept the ibises in big lakes near their temples, not in the wild.
Fantasy\n\nFantasy is a kind of make-believe story. In a fantasy story, there is often magic, like wizards or spells. The story might happen in a made-up world that is not like our own, such as a land with dragons or talking animals. Some fantasy stories have knights and castles, and others have strange creatures. Fantasy is fun because you can imagine things that are not real.
Immigration\n\nImmigration is when people move from one country to another country to live there. The people who move are called immigrants. Some immigrants come because they need a safe place to live. Others come to find a better life. It can be hard to move to a new country. People have to leave their friends and family behind. They also have to learn a new language and find a new home. In the United States, a person who wants to stay must get a green card first. A green card shows that the person is trying to stay in the country the right way. After five years, the person can become a citizen.
Ode\n\nAn ode is a special kind of poem. It says how wonderful a person or thing is. The poem often starts with the words 'Ode to...' and then says the name. For example, a poet named John Keats wrote 'Ode to a Nightingale.' Long ago, people in Greece and Rome wrote odes too. A Roman poet named Horace was very good at writing odes.
Saint Lawrence River\n\nThe Saint Lawrence River is a very big river in North America. It starts at the Great Lakes and flows all the way to the Atlantic Ocean. The river is more than three thousand kilometers long. Big ships can travel on this river to reach cities far inside the land. The cities of Montreal and Quebec City are on this river. The river meets the ocean in a huge bay called the Gulf of Saint Lawrence.
Region\n\nA region is a big area of land or water. It is smaller than the whole world or a whole country. For example, a place that is very hot or very cold all year can be a region. A region can be a part of a country, like a group of states. Some countries use the word region for a part of the government.
Diabetes\n\nDiabetes is a sickness where the body has trouble with sugar. When you eat food, your body turns it into sugar for energy. But if you have diabetes, the sugar stays in your blood and does not go where it is needed. People with diabetes have to be careful about what they eat and may need medicine or special shots to help their body use the sugar. A doctor helps them stay healthy.
Judge\n\nA judge is a person who works in a court of law. The judge makes sure everyone is treated fairly. Judges wear special clothes, like a black robe or a red cloak. Some judges also wear a long wig. A judge listens to people talk about what happened and decides what to do. Sometimes a group of people called a jury helps the judge. In some countries, the most important judges work in a place called the supreme court.
Technology\n\nTechnology is how people make and use tools to get things done. A long time ago, people learned to make fire and use simple tools like sticks and stones. Later, they made the wheel and ships to move things and travel. Today, we have phones, computers, and the Internet. These help us talk to people far away and learn new things. Technology helps us grow food, build houses, and stay safe. Without it, life would be very hard.
Termite\n\nTermites are small bugs that live together in big groups called colonies. They look a little like white ants, but they are not ants. Termites eat wood, leaves, and dirt. They help break down old trees and plants in warm places. Some termites build tall dirt mounds that look like little mountains. A termite colony has many bugs: workers that find food, soldiers that guard the nest, and a queen that lays eggs. Most termites live underground.
Belize\n\nBelize is a small country in Central America. It sits next to the Caribbean Sea, which has warm blue water. Many people in Belize speak English, and some also speak Spanish or Kriol. The capital city is Belmopan. Belize has many islands, and the biggest one is called Ambergris Caye. Around the islands there are coral reefs where colorful fish live. The weather is hot all year. Sometimes big storms called hurricanes come. The national flower is the black orchid, and the national tree is the mahogany tree. The national bird is the keel-billed toucan, which has a big colorful beak. The national animal is the tapir, which looks like a big pig and likes to swim.
Rights\n\nA right is something you are allowed to do or have. It is a rule that says no one can take it away from you. For example, you have the right to be safe and to learn. Rights are different from treats, which you have to earn. Many people agree that rights are good and fair.
Geology\n\nGeology is about the Earth and what it is made of. People who study geology are called geologists. They look at rocks, which can be hard or soft. Some rocks are common, and some are rare. Rocks can be changed by heat and squeezing, which can make cracks called faults. When a fault breaks suddenly, it can cause an earthquake. Soil is the stuff on the ground made of tiny pieces from broken rocks and old leaves. Plants grow in soil. Geologists also learn about the history of the Earth, like big floods, volcanoes, and how mountains are made.
Springtail\n\nA springtail is a tiny animal with six legs. It lives in the dirt and eats tiny bits of plants and fungus. Springtails need wet soil to live. They do not have wings and cannot fly. Sometimes they can hurt plants that people grow for food.
Roof\n\nA roof is the top part of a building. It keeps rain, snow, and sun out. Some roofs are slanted so rain and snow slide off. Some roofs are flat, but they are a little slanted so water can flow away. Roofs can be made of wood, metal, or clay tiles. It can be dangerous to walk on a slanted roof. Flat roofs are safer to walk on.
Dragonfly\n\nA dragonfly is a flying insect with four strong clear wings and a long body. It has very big eyes that help it see almost everywhere at once. Dragonflies live near lakes, ponds, and streams. They eat small flying bugs like mosquitoes and flies. Baby dragonflies live in the water and are called nymphs. They eat tiny water animals like tadpoles. When a nymph is ready to become an adult, it climbs out of the water onto a stick. Its skin splits open, and the grown dragonfly comes out. It pumps up its wings and flies away. Dragonflies can fly up, down, forward, backward, and sideways. They can even hover in one spot like a little helicopter.
Ural (river)\n\nThe Ural River is a very long river in Russia. It is so long that it helps show where Europe and Asia meet. The river starts in the Ural Mountains and ends at the Caspian Sea. It is the third longest river in Europe. Big cities like Orsk and Uralsk are on this river.
Leather\n\nLeather is the skin of an animal that has been made into a strong material. People use the skin of cows, pigs, and goats to make leather. Sometimes they use the skin of snakes, alligators, or crocodiles for fancy leather. Shoes, bags, clothes, and balls are often made of leather. To make leather, the animal skin is cleaned and then treated so it does not rot. This treatment is called tanning. After tanning, the leather is soft and can be used for many things. Some leather is very strong, like horse leather, and some is very soft, like lamb leather.
Yellow\n\nYellow is a color you can see in the rainbow between green and orange. It is the color of the sun, lemons, and bananas. Some flowers are yellow, like daffodils and sunflowers. Yellow is a bright and happy color. Printers use yellow ink along with blue and red ink to make other colors.
Brass instrument\n\nA brass instrument is a musical tool that you play by blowing into it. You put your lips against a metal cup and buzz them to make a sound. Most brass instruments have long pipes with buttons called valves. When you press the valves, the sound changes. Some brass instruments are made of shiny yellow metal called brass, but they can also be made of other metals or even plastic. A group of people playing brass instruments and drums together is called a brass band. Brass bands often play in parades because the players can walk and play at the same time.
Sustainability\n\nSustainability means taking care of things so they last a long time. It is about using what we need today without using up everything for the people who come after us. This includes taking care of nature, animals, and plants. We can do this by not wasting things, like turning off lights when we leave a room, and by reusing things instead of throwing them away. When we are sustainable, we help make sure the world stays nice for our friends and family in the future.
Rose\n\nA rose is a flower that grows on a bush with green leaves. Roses come in many colors like red, yellow, white, and pink. They have a nice smell. Most roses have sharp thorns on their stems. You can see roses in gardens. They bloom in summer and make gardens look pretty. People give roses to show love or to say sorry. The fruit of a rose is called a hip.
Reptile\n\nA reptile is an animal that crawls on the ground. Reptiles have dry, scaly skin. They are cold-blooded, which means their body gets warm from the sun. Most reptiles lay eggs with a hard shell. Snakes, lizards, turtles, and crocodiles are reptiles. Some reptiles are very big, and some are very small. A tiny chameleon is the smallest reptile. Reptiles have a special see-through eyelid that keeps their eyes wet and clean. Many reptiles live in warm places. Birds are not called reptiles, but they are related to them.
Muslim occasions\n\nMuslim occasions are special days when Muslims celebrate or remember important events. One big celebration is Eid ul-Fitr. It happens right after Ramadan, a month when Muslims do not eat or drink during the daytime. On Eid ul-Fitr, Muslims have a big feast and say a special prayer. Another celebration is Eid Al-Adha. It remembers when a prophet named Abraham was ready to give up his son to show he loved God. God stopped him and said it was just a test. On this day, Muslims share meat from a goat or cow with family and poor people. Friday is a special day for Muslims. They go to the mosque to pray because they believe good deeds count more on that day. There is also a night called Laylat al-Qadr, when the holy book of Muslims, the Qur'an, was first shown to people. Muslims also go on a trip to a city called Mecca at least once in their life if they can. This trip is called Hajj.
Musk ox\n\nA musk ox is a big animal with thick fur that lives in very cold places. It has long, curved horns on its head. The male musk ox makes a strong smell, which is why it is called "musk." Musk oxen live together in groups called herds. A herd has females and babies, and one or two strong males lead them. When a wolf comes near, all the musk oxen make a circle and point their horns out to stay safe. They eat grass, leaves, and flowers. They swallow their food without chewing, and later they bring it back up to chew it again.
Drought\n\nDrought is a long time with no rain. The ground gets very dry and hard. Plants cannot grow because they need water. Animals and people can get very thirsty. Drought can be dangerous. It happens slowly and can last for many months. Sometimes people cut down too many trees, and that can make drought happen.
Sickle\n\nA sickle is a tool with a curved blade and a handle. People use it to cut plants like wheat or rice. The inside of the curve is sharp, so you can swing it and cut the plant's stem. Some sickles have teeth like a saw. Long ago, people used sickles before machines were made. Sometimes a sickle is used as a weapon in stories. A sickle and a hammer together are a sign for a country called the Soviet Union.
Amazons\n\nThe Amazons were make-believe women in old Greek stories. They were very strong and fought like warriors. People said they lived near a big river by the Black Sea. The Amazons were good at riding horses and fighting. They built some cities and temples. These stories might have come from real warrior women who lived long ago.
Proverb\n\nA proverb is a wise saying. It tells you something true about life. Many people use proverbs to give advice. For example, 'Slow and steady wins the race' is a proverb. It means you do not have to be fast to win. You just have to keep going. Proverbs come from long ago and are still used today.
Country music\n\nCountry music is a kind of music that people in the United States have liked for a long time. It started from old songs that cowboys and pioneers sang. Country music often tells stories about everyday life and feelings. Many famous singers like Johnny Cash, Dolly Parton, and Taylor Swift have sung country music. The city of Nashville, Tennessee is a big place for country music. People there put on shows at a place called the Grand Ole Opry. Country music uses guitars, fiddles, and sometimes a steel guitar that sounds like it slides. Some country songs are funny, and some are sad. People all over the world listen to country music, not just in America.
History of Saudi Arabia\n\nThe history of Saudi Arabia is a long story about a country in a hot, sandy part of the world. A long, long time ago, people lived there and traded with other places. The country we know today started when a family called Al Saud began to rule in 1727. In 1902, a man named Abdulaziz Ibn Saud took over a city called Riyadh. He won more land, and in 1932 he made the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. People found oil there in 1938, which made the country rich. Before that, a very important man named Muhammad started a religion called Islam in the 600s. The holy cities of Mecca and Medina are in Saudi Arabia, and many people visit them.
Ganesha\n\nGanesha is a god in the Hindu religion. He has the head of an elephant and the body of a person. Ganesha is the son of Shiva and Parvati. Many people pray to Ganesha for good luck and to help them with hard things. He is a god of wisdom and success. People believe that Ganesha can take away problems and make things easier.
Track and field athletics\n\nTrack and field is a sport where people run, jump, and throw things. It happens in a big stadium with a track to run on and a field inside for jumping and throwing. Runners race on the track. Some races are short, and some are long. Jumpers try to jump high or far. Throwers throw things like a heavy ball or a long stick. People practice a lot to get better. Many kids and grown-ups do track and field for fun or in competitions like the Olympic games.
Somalia\n\nSomalia is a country in Africa. It is very hot and dry there. Many people in Somalia take care of camels and goats. Somalia has been through a lot of fighting and does not have a strong government. It is one of the poorest countries in the world. People from Somalia are called Somalis.
Boy\n\nA boy is a young male person, like a child or a teenager. Boys grow up to become men. The opposite of a boy is a girl. Boys often have short hair and wear pants. Many boys like to play rough games like soccer and enjoy playing with toy cars and trains. The color blue is often for boys. Some names are for boys, and some names are for girls.
History of China\n\nThe history of China is a very long story about a big country far away. It goes back thousands of years. Long ago, China was ruled by many different families called dynasties. The first emperor was Qin Shi Huang. He made China strong and started building the Great Wall. Later, the Han dynasty was a golden time when China grew bigger and learned new things. After that, China was split into three kingdoms for a while. Then came the Tang dynasty, when the capital city was the biggest in the world. The Song dynasty came next, but it was smaller. Then the Yuan dynasty was ruled by Mongol leaders like Genghis Khan and Kublai Khan. The Ming dynasty followed, and a man named Zheng He sailed big ships to faraway places. The last dynasty was the Qing dynasty. In modern times, China became the People's Republic of China, led by Mao Zedong. Today, China is a very rich country and has hosted big events like the Olympics.
Estonia\n\nEstonia is a country in Northern Europe by the Baltic Sea. Its capital city is Tallinn. Estonia has many forests, lakes, and islands. Almost half of the land is covered with trees like pine, spruce, and birch. Animals that live there include bears, wolves, foxes, and deer. Many birds also live in Estonia, like eagles, storks, and owls. The barn swallow is the national bird. Estonia has very fast internet. People in Estonia celebrate their independence day on February 24.
Tinamou\n\nA tinamou is a bird that lives in Central and South America. There are 47 kinds of tinamou. They mostly stay on the ground and can be found in many different places like forests and grasslands. Tinamous are very old birds, related to ostriches and emus. They have a flat chest bone, unlike their big cousins. Tinamous eat seeds and bugs.
Polaris (star)\n\nPolaris is a star in the sky. It is also called the North Star. It stays in almost the same spot in the sky all night long. Long ago, sailors on boats used Polaris to find their way. They looked at it to know which way was north. Polaris is very big and bright. It is part of a group of three stars that move around each other. You can see it with your eyes on a clear night.
Blueberry\n\nA blueberry is a small, round berry that is blue or purple. It grows on a bush called a shrub. Many blueberries come from North America and eastern Asia. You can find them from May to October. Blueberries taste sweet with a little sour. People use them to make jelly, jam, pie, muffins, and pancakes. Wild blueberries have a stronger taste.
New York (state)\n\nNew York is a state in the United States. It is in the northeastern part of the country. The state has many rivers and streams. The biggest city in New York is also called New York City. Many people live there. The state has other cities like Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, and Albany. Albany is the capital city. A long time ago, New York was a colony of the Dutch and then the English. Later, it became one of the first thirteen states of the United States. The Erie Canal helped the state grow. Today, New York is the fourth most populated state in the US.
Parody\n\nA parody is a funny kind of art. It copies another piece of art, like a movie or a song, but makes it silly. In a parody, the good guys might shoot one time and ten bad guys fall down. That is not real, but it makes you laugh. Some movies are parodies of other movies. There are also funny books and songs that are parodies. People make parodies to be funny and to show what they think about something.
Proton\n\nA proton is a tiny part of an atom. It lives in the middle of the atom, called the nucleus. Protons are very small, but they are much heavier than electrons. Every kind of atom has a different number of protons. For example, the lightest atom, hydrogen, has just one proton. Protons help make up the center of every atom, along with neutrons. Scientists count protons to tell one kind of atom from another.
Folk dance\n\nA folk dance is a dance that people do for fun, not for a contest or a show. Many folk dances come from Europe. Some folk dances use swords, like longsword dances. Other folk dances are called country dances, and people do them in groups. Over time, some folk dances turned into ballroom dances.
Abu Dhabi\n\nAbu Dhabi is a big city in a hot desert. It is the capital of the United Arab Emirates. The city sits on an island that looks like the letter T. Many people live there. A long time ago, people found oil in the ground near Abu Dhabi. They started selling the oil to other countries. The weather is very hot in summer and warm in winter. Not much rain falls there. People visit Abu Dhabi to see big buildings, a mosque, a museum, and a theme park. There is also a tall mountain called Jabal Hafeet.
Odyssey\n\nThe Odyssey is a very old story from Greece. It is about a man named Odysseus who tries to go home after a big war. His trip takes ten years because he meets many monsters and has many adventures. He fights a one-eyed giant called a Cyclops. He sails past women called Sirens who sing a pretty song that makes sailors crash their ships. He stays with a woman named Calypso for seven years. Finally, he gets home and finds his wife Penelope waiting for him. She had to tell many men who wanted to marry her to wait. Odysseus and his son Telemachus chase the bad men away. The story is full of brave fights and clever tricks.
Halibut\n\nA halibut is a flat fish that lives in the ocean. It has a wide, flat body and both eyes on one side of its head. People like to eat halibut for dinner. There are two kinds: one lives in the Atlantic Ocean and one lives in the Pacific Ocean. The Atlantic kind is harder to find now because too many were caught. Its name comes from old words that mean "holy flat fish" because people used to eat it on special holy days.
Physical disability\n\nA physical disability is when a part of your body does not work the way it should. Some people are born with a disability, and some get it later from a sickness or a hurt. For example, a person might have trouble walking or using their arms. There are many famous people who have a physical disability, like leaders, actors, and singers.
Arm\n\nAn arm is a part of your body. You have two arms, one on each side. Your arms start at your shoulders, near your neck. At the end of each arm is a hand. You use your arms and hands to pick up toys, hold a spoon, or hug someone. Your arm has different parts: your shoulder, upper arm, elbow, forearm, wrist, hand, and fingers. Some animals like monkeys also have arms. They use their arms to climb trees and swing from branch to branch.
Acne\n\nAcne is a skin problem that makes red bumps on your body. It happens when oil and dead skin block tiny holes in your skin. Germs can grow there and make the skin red and sore. Acne often shows up on your face, chest, back, and arms. It is very common when you are growing up, but grown-ups can get it too. You should not pop the bumps because that can make it worse and leave marks. Washing your face twice a day can help, but washing too much can dry out your skin. Eating chocolate or pizza does not cause acne, but some milk products might.
Bromeliad\n\nBromeliads are a family of plants that live in warm, tropical places. Most of them come from Latin America and the Caribbean islands. One bromeliad you might know is the pineapple, which is a fruit you can eat. Some bromeliads, called air plants, do not need dirt to grow. They take water from the air through tiny scales on their leaves. Other bromeliads, called urn plants, have a hole in the middle that fills with rainwater. Little bugs and frogs sometimes live in that water. Many bromeliads have colorful leaves and flowers that last a long time. Some people keep them as houseplants because they are easy to take care of.
Hanoi\n\nHanoi is a big city in Vietnam. It is the capital city, which means the leader of the country lives there. Many people live in Hanoi. The city is next to a big river called the Red River. People in Hanoi make things like tools, cloth, and toys. You can visit special places there, like a big building where a famous leader is buried. A yummy soup called pho was first made near Hanoi.
Shark\n\nA shark is a fish that lives in the ocean. Sharks have been around for a very long time, even before dinosaurs. They have skeletons made of a tough, bendy stuff called cartilage, not hard bone. There are more than 350 kinds of sharks, like the great white shark and the whale shark. Most sharks hunt and eat other sea animals, but the whale shark eats tiny plants and animals. Sharks have many rows of teeth, and when they lose a tooth, a new one grows in. A shark can lose and grow back 30,000 teeth in its life! Sharks cannot chew, so they bite off chunks and swallow them. They find food by smelling and feeling movements in the water. Some sharks are very big, like the great white shark, and some are smaller. Sharks have skin that feels smooth one way and rough the other way because it is covered in tiny tooth-like scales.
Sturgeon\n\nA sturgeon is a big fish with a long body. It has hard plates on its skin instead of scales. Its nose is pointy and its tail is shaped like a shark's tail. Sturgeons live in rivers and lakes in North America and Europe. They have been around for a very long time, even before dinosaurs. People catch sturgeons for their eggs, which are called caviar. Some sturgeons are very big and can live for many years.
Abstract art\n\nAbstract art is a kind of art that does not show things from everyday life. It uses colors, lines, and shapes, but they are not meant to look like people, animals, or houses. Artists make abstract art to share feelings and ideas. You can see abstract art in paintings and in sculptures. Some artists paint big canvases with lots of color. Others make art by dripping paint onto the floor. Abstract art started a long time ago, around 1913. One artist painted a black square. Another artist made a very busy painting with many colors and shapes. Today, many people like to look at abstract art and think about what it means.
Observation\n\nObservation is when you use your eyes, ears, and hands to learn about things around you. You can watch a bug crawl on the ground or listen to a bird sing. Scientists use observation to find out how things work. When you look closely at something, you are observing it.
Avalanche\n\nAn avalanche is a lot of snow that falls down a mountain very fast. When too much snow piles up on a mountain, some of it can break loose and rush down. This can be dangerous for people who ski or play in the snow. The fast snow can carry rocks and trees with it. It can cover people up, and they might not get enough air. To try to stay safe, you can pretend to swim in the snow to keep your face up. You can also hold on to something strong like a big tree or a heavy rock.
Belgrade\n\nBelgrade is a big city and the capital of a country called Serbia. It sits where two rivers meet. Long ago, it was the capital of a bigger country called Yugoslavia. Today, many people visit Belgrade because it has lots of fun things to do at night. The city has old buildings and new ones too. People in Belgrade speak Serbian.
Surprise (emotion)\n\nSurprise is a feeling you get when something happens that you did not expect. If a balloon pops with a loud bang, you might feel surprised. Surprise can be good, like when someone gives you a present you did not know about. It can also be bad, like when you trip and fall. When you are surprised, your eyes may open wide and you might say "Oh!".
New England\n\nNew England is a part of the United States. It has six states: Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island. The name was made up a long time ago by a man named John Smith. In New England, you can see forests, mountains, and the ocean. The weather can be very cold in winter with lots of snow.
Intelligence\n\nIntelligence is the power of your brain to think and solve problems. When you figure out a puzzle or remember how to do something, that is your intelligence at work. Some problems are easy, and some are hard and need a lot of thinking. People can learn from their mistakes and get better at solving problems. Scientists can test intelligence by asking people to solve puzzles, look at shapes, or answer math questions. Animals like dogs, dolphins, and elephants also show intelligence when they use tools or remember how to get food. Even some machines can be made to act smart, like a computer that learns to play a game. But plants are not usually called intelligent because they do not have a brain like ours.
Justice\n\nJustice means being fair to everyone. It is a rule that says people should be treated the same way. Police and courts help make sure people follow the rules. If a rule is not fair, people can work together to change it.
Byte\n\nA byte is a way to measure how much information a computer can hold. One byte is made of eight tiny pieces called bits. A bit is the smallest piece of information a computer can store, like a tiny switch that is either on or off. One byte can hold one letter or one number, like the letter 'A' or the number '8'. When you save a picture or a game on a computer, it takes up many bytes. A bigger number of bytes is called a kilobyte, a megabyte, or a gigabyte. People use the letter B for byte and the letter b for bit, so it is important to know the difference.
Bruise\n\nA bruise is a dark spot on your skin that happens when you bump into something. It looks blue or purple at first. The spot hurts a little, but it is not dangerous. Your body fixes the bruise, and it changes color over time. It turns green, then yellow, and then goes away. A bruise takes about two weeks to disappear. Putting ice on a new bruise can help it heal faster. You can also lift the bruised part up high to help it get better.
Germany\n\nGermany is a country in the middle of Europe. It has big cities, forests, and rivers. The capital city is Berlin. Germany is next to the North Sea and the Baltic Sea. It shares borders with Denmark, Poland, the Czech Republic, Austria, Switzerland, France, Luxembourg, Belgium, and the Netherlands. Many people live in Germany. The country is known for making cars, machines, and toys. People in Germany speak German. The flag of Germany has three stripes: black, red, and gold. Germany has a leader called a chancellor. The country is part of a big group called the European Union.
Hypothesis\n\nA hypothesis is a smart guess about why something happens. Scientists use hypotheses to try to understand the world. For example, if you see that plants near a window grow faster, you might guess that plants need sunlight to grow. That guess is a hypothesis. A good hypothesis can be tested by doing an experiment. If many tests show the guess is right, it can become a theory, which is a well-tested idea. A working hypothesis is a rough guess that helps scientists start their work, even if it might be wrong. In everyday talk, people sometimes call a hypothesis an 'educated guess.'
Liquid crystal display\n\nA liquid crystal display is a thin flat screen that can let light through or block it. It does not make its own light. The screen has many tiny blocks filled with special liquid. When electricity goes to a block, the liquid changes and blocks light. When there is no electricity, the block lets light through. These screens use very little power, so they are good for things like digital watches and flat TVs. For phones and computers, a light behind the screen helps you see the picture.
Vatican City\n\nVatican City is the smallest country in the whole world. It is inside the city of Rome, in Italy. The Pope lives there and is the leader of the country. Many people visit to see big churches and beautiful paintings. The Swiss Guards wear colorful uniforms and keep the Pope safe. People there speak Italian and Latin.
Horticulture\n\nHorticulture is about growing plants in gardens. It is the work of taking care of flowers, fruits, and vegetables. A person who does this is called a horticulturist. They help plants grow big and healthy. They also make new kinds of plants by mixing different ones together.
Pine\n\nA pine is a kind of tree that stays green all year. Pines have long, thin needles instead of flat leaves. They grow in many places around the world, like North America, Europe, and Asia. Some pines can live for a very long time, even thousands of years. Pine trees make cones. The cones hold seeds inside. Some cones open up when it gets hot, like in a fire, and the seeds fall out. Birds sometimes help by breaking the cones open to get the seeds. The seeds can grow into new pine trees.
Mount Everest\n\nMount Everest is the highest mountain on Earth. It is in Asia, in a tall mountain range called the Himalayas. The mountain sits on the line between two countries: Nepal and China. The top of Mount Everest is very high, and the air there is too thin for people to breathe. People who climb need big bottles of air called oxygen to help them breathe. The first people to reach the top were Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay in 1953. Many people try to climb Mount Everest every year. The Sherpa people live near the mountain. They call it "Chomolungma," which means "mother of the earth." Some Sherpas help other people climb by carrying food, water, and air bottles up the mountain. Mount Everest is very cold and snowy. The wind can blow very fast. The ice on the mountain is melting because the Earth is getting warmer.
Traditional Chinese medicine\n\nTraditional Chinese medicine is a very old way of helping people feel better. It comes from China and is more than 3,000 years old. People who use this medicine believe there are five things in the body: wood, fire, earth, metal, and water. They also think about yin and yang, which are like opposite things that need to be together. To stay healthy, they try to make the body's energy strong. Some treatments are drinking special teas made from plants, putting tiny needles in the skin, or using warm cups on the back. This kind of medicine is different from the medicine doctors use in the West.
Sikhism\n\nSikhism is a religion that started in a place called Punjab about 500 years ago. People who follow Sikhism are called Sikhs. They believe in one God who cannot be seen and made everything. Sikhs have ten special teachers called Gurus. The first Guru was Guru Nanak. The last Guru said that a holy book called the Guru Granth Sahib would be the teacher for all Sikhs. Sikhs go to a temple called a Gurdwara to pray and sing. In the Gurdwara, everyone sits on the floor and eats together. The food is called Langar, and it is free for everyone. Sikhs believe all people are equal. They try to be honest, help others, and share what they have. They also celebrate a festival called Vaisakhi.
Louse\n\nA louse is a tiny bug that lives in hair. Lice have no wings and are very small. They stay on animals or people their whole life. They eat tiny bits of skin or blood. A louse egg is called a nit. Nits are stuck to hair and are hard to take off. Lice can make you feel itchy. You can get rid of them with a special comb or shampoo.
Retail\n\nRetail is when a store sells things to people who will use them. When you buy shoes to wear or food to eat, you are buying from a retailer. Retailers get things from the people who make them or from big sellers, and then sell them in small amounts. You can buy retail items at shops, malls, and markets. You can also order them by phone, mail, or the Internet, and they get delivered to your home. Sometimes a person comes to your door to sell things.
Bordeaux\n\nBordeaux is a city in France. It sits next to a big river called the Garonne, not far from the ocean. Many people live there. The city is famous for making wine and for its art. Some of its buildings are very old, from Roman times. Long ago, a tribe of people called Celts lived there. Then the Romans came and ruled the city. Later, a queen named Eleanor married a king of England, and the city became part of England for a while. Later still, it became part of France again. During big wars, the French government moved to Bordeaux for safety. Today, Bordeaux is a special place that people like to visit.
Central heating\n\nCentral heating is a way to make a whole building warm from one big heater. The heater uses gas, oil, wood, or electricity to make hot air or hot water. The hot air moves through pipes or tubes to every room. The hot water goes to special metal boxes called radiators that get warm. Before central heating, families had to sit near one fire to stay warm. With central heating, you can play in any room of the house. Some buildings also have cool air in the summer. Long ago, people in Greece and Rome had warm floors in their houses.
Blood pressure\n\nBlood pressure is how hard your blood pushes against the inside of your blood tubes. Your heart pumps blood through your body. When the heart beats, the push is stronger. When the heart rests between beats, the push is softer. Doctors use a special tool to measure it. They put a soft band around your arm and squeeze it. A healthy number for grown-ups is below 120 over 80. If the number is too high for a long time, it can hurt the heart. If it is too low, you might feel dizzy.
Coral\n\nCoral is made by tiny animals called polyps. These animals live together in big groups called colonies. Each polyp is like a small bag with a mouth on top and little arms around it. The arms can sting tiny animals that the coral eats. Coral grows in warm, clear ocean water where the sun shines. Most corals have tiny plants living inside them that use sunlight to make food for the coral. The coral animals make a hard rock around themselves. When they die, new polyps grow on top. Different kinds of coral make different shapes, like a brain, a mushroom, or a cabbage. Many corals together make a coral reef. A reef is a home for fish, crabs, clams, and sponges. People sometimes use coral as jewelry.
Earthworm\n\nAn earthworm is a long, stretchy animal with no legs. It lives in damp, loose soil. Earthworms are reddish brown and have no eyes. They breathe through their skin, so they must stay wet. Earthworms help gardens by making the soil soft and adding good stuff from their droppings. They eat old leaves and other dead plant bits. Earthworms have a special part on their body that looks like a belt. When two earthworms meet, they swap tiny cells to make baby worms. A baby worm takes a long time to grow up, and earthworms can live for many years.
Inner Mongolia\n\nInner Mongolia is a big place in the north of China. It is a special part of China where many Mongol people live. The capital city is Hohhot. Many people there speak Chinese and Mongolian. Inner Mongolia has lots of open land with grass and animals like horses and sheep. Some people live in round tents called yurts. The weather can be very cold in winter and warm in summer.
System\n\nA system is a group of things that work together. Some systems are made by people, like a car engine. Other systems are natural, like the planets and the Sun. The Solar System is one example. It has the Sun and eight planets that move around it. The planets and moons are all part of the system. Your body also has systems. For example, your heart and blood work together to keep you healthy. Systems help things stay the same even when something changes.
Jazz\n\nJazz is a kind of music that was first made in the United States. It mixes music from African-American people with music from Europe. People who play jazz often make up the music as they go along, which is called improvising. Some instruments used in jazz are the saxophone, trumpet, guitar, piano, big bass, and drums. Jazz music has a special rhythm that makes you want to move, and it uses notes that sound a little different. Long ago, jazz started from songs that slaves sang while working. There are many types of jazz, like New Orleans jazz, swing, and bebop. Big jazz bands have many players, like five saxophones and four trumpets. Every year on April 30, people around the world celebrate International Jazz Day with concerts and learning about jazz.
Decimal\n\nDecimal is a way to write numbers using ten different symbols: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. You can make any number, big or small, with just these ten symbols. Sometimes there is a dot called a decimal point, like in 1.5. The dot helps show numbers that are less than one. People use decimal numbers every day, like when you count money or measure things.
Astronomy\n\nAstronomy is about looking at things in the sky, like stars, planets, and the moon. People who study astronomy use telescopes to see faraway things. The sun is a big, bright star. You should never look right at the sun because it can hurt your eyes. Long ago, people looked at the stars with just their eyes. They made pictures of the stars called constellations. Some people thought the Earth was the center of everything, but now we know the Earth goes around the sun. Astronomers have found many other planets and stars far away. They also found that there are many other galaxies besides our own Milky Way.
Science fiction\n\nScience fiction is a kind of story about the future. These stories can be in books, movies, or TV shows. They often have spaceships, robots, and aliens. The world in a science fiction story is very different from our world. It can have new inventions that do not exist yet. Some science fiction stories are about traveling to other planets. Others are about what might happen if we had special powers. Science fiction is not the same as fantasy. Fantasy has magic, but science fiction uses ideas from science. Many people like to read or watch science fiction because it is fun and makes them think.
Jumping\n\nJumping is when you push your body up into the air and then come back down. Your feet leave the ground for a little while. Jumping is different from running because you are in the air longer. Some animals like kangaroos jump to move around. Frogs jump to get away from animals that want to eat them. People jump in games and sports like the long jump and high jump.
Doll\n\nA doll is a toy that looks like a baby or a person. People have made dolls for a very long time, using things like wood, cloth, plastic, and even stone. Most dolls are for children to play with. Some dolls can talk or move. There are baby dolls, rag dolls, and fashion dolls. Big kids and grown-ups sometimes collect dolls because they are pretty or special.
Tuna\n\nTuna is a kind of fish that lives in the ocean. It can swim very fast, faster than a car on a road. Most fish have white meat, but tuna meat is pink or dark red. Some big tuna can make their bodies warm, even in cold water. People catch tuna for food. You can eat tuna from a can or fresh. Some tuna are very big, like the bluefin tuna. People also fish for tuna for fun, using a rod and hook. Baby tuna are called larvae.
Radar\n\nA radar is a machine that uses special waves to find things like airplanes, ships, and rain. It sends out waves that bounce off objects and come back. By counting how long the waves take to come back, the radar can tell where the object is and how far away it is. Radar can also measure how fast cars are going on a road. It was first used a long time ago and helped people during a big war. Today, many people use radar to keep airplanes safe and to watch the weather.
Stepfamily\n\nA stepfamily is a family where a mom or dad gets married again. If your mom or dad marries someone new, that person becomes your stepmom or stepdad. You might also get stepbrothers or stepsisters. A stepfamily is still a real family where everyone loves each other.
Rhythm and blues\n\nRhythm and blues is a kind of music that people sing and play. It started in America with African American singers. It mixes jazz, gospel, and blues sounds. Today, people all over the world make rhythm and blues music. Some singers sing fast, and some sing slow. You can hear it on the radio or on a phone. Many famous singers like Beyoncé and Usher sing rhythm and blues.
Family\n\nA family is a group of people who live together and take care of each other. They share food, money, and love. A family can have a mom, a dad, and children. Some families have just one parent. Some families have grandparents, aunts, uncles, and cousins living together too. Sometimes a child lives with people who are not their birth parents, and that is called a foster family. Families help each other and do things together.
Hobby\n\nA hobby is something you do for fun when you are not at school or work. People pick hobbies because they like them. Some people make things with their hands, like drawing, painting, or sewing clothes. Others play games or solve puzzles, like board games or jigsaw puzzles. Some people like to read books, write stories, or learn new things. You can also do hobbies outside, like gardening, hiking, or riding a bike. Many people collect things like stamps, coins, or toys. A hobby can be anything you enjoy doing in your free time.
Orchid\n\nAn orchid is a flower that grows in many places around the world. There are many kinds of orchids, and they come in many colors and shapes. People grow orchids to look at them, to study them, or to use them for food, like vanilla. Some orchids have special ways to get bugs to help them make seeds. For example, one kind of orchid can trap a bug inside its flower. Another kind of orchid grows underground and uses ants to help it. Orchid seeds are very tiny, like dust, and they need help from tiny living things in the dirt to grow into new plants.
Larva\n\nA larva is a baby animal that looks very different from its mom and dad. Some animals grow in steps. First, they come out of an egg as a larva. Then they change shape as they grow up. A caterpillar is a larva. It turns into a butterfly. A tadpole is a larva. It turns into a frog. A maggot is a larva. It turns into a fly. Larvae often eat different food than the grown-ups. They live in water or on land. Many sea animals have tiny larvae that float in the water. These larvae can travel far away before they grow up.
Smartphone\n\nA smartphone is a small computer you can carry in your pocket. It works like a phone and a computer together. You can use it to call people, send messages, take pictures, and play games. Most smartphones have a touch screen that you tap with your finger. They can connect to the internet to watch videos or look up things. Many smartphones have a camera built in, so you can take photos and videos. The battery inside the phone needs to be charged with a special cord. Some phones let you take out the battery, but many new ones do not.
Hydropower\n\nHydropower is a way to use moving water to make energy. Water that flows fast or falls down can turn big wheels called turbines. This makes electricity without burning anything. Dams hold back water in a river, then let it out to make power. Hydropower does not make dirty smoke, so it is clean for the Earth. Some places also use the ocean's tides and waves to make power. This kind of energy can be cheaper than other kinds.
Sport\n\nSport is a game where people run, jump, or play to see who is best. Some sports are played with a ball, like basketball or soccer. Some sports are racing, like running or swimming. People who do sports are called athletes. A coach helps them learn and get better. Sports can be played inside or outside, alone or with a team. Playing sports keeps your body strong and healthy. It also makes you feel happy. Many people like to watch sports on TV or at a big place called a stadium. The people who watch are called fans.
Mustache\n\nA mustache is hair that grows on the top lip of some men. Some men have a lot of hair and a big mustache, and some have very little. Many men shave their mustache or cut it short. Some animals, like walruses, also have hair that looks like a mustache.
Hippopotamus\n\nA hippopotamus is a very big animal that lives in Africa. It has a big body, short legs, and a huge mouth with big teeth. Its skin is dark gray and has almost no hair. Hippos spend a lot of time in rivers and lakes to stay cool. They come out at night to eat grass. A baby hippo is called a calf. Hippos can run fast on land, even faster than a person. They are very strong and can be dangerous if you get too close. People are careful around hippos because they protect their babies.
Ligament\n\nA ligament is a strong, stretchy band inside your body. It holds bones together at a joint, like your knee or elbow. Ligaments do not connect muscles to bones; that is what tendons do. They help keep your joints from moving too much. If you stretch a lot, like gymnasts and dancers do, your ligaments can become longer and more bendy. If a ligament gets hurt, the joint may feel loose or wobbly.
Cashew\n\nA cashew is a tree that grows in warm places. It gives us cashew nuts to eat. Cashew nuts are a yummy snack. They can make soup and stew thick and creamy. People also make cashew butter from them. The shell of the nut is not safe to eat, so it is taken off before you buy the nuts.
Electromagnetism\n\nElectromagnetism is a force that pushes or pulls things with electric charge, like tiny bits called electrons and protons. There are two kinds of charge: plus and minus. Plus and minus pull together, but two pluses or two minuses push apart. This force also makes magnets work. When electricity moves, it can make a magnet. And a moving magnet can make electricity. Light is a kind of electromagnetism that travels as waves. Light comes in tiny packets called photons. Photons carry the push and pull between charged things.
Nuclear power\n\nNuclear power is a way to make electricity using tiny pieces inside atoms. A machine called a nuclear reactor splits atoms apart, and that makes heat. The heat boils water to make steam. The steam turns a big wheel called a turbine, and that makes electricity for lights and machines. Some ships and submarines also use nuclear power to move. Nuclear power plants make special waste that must be kept safe because it can be harmful. People do not agree about nuclear power. Some say it is good because it does not make dirty air. Others say it is bad because the waste is dangerous.
Brown bear\n\nA brown bear is a big animal with thick fur. It lives in forests and mountains in many parts of the world, like North America, Europe, and Asia. Brown bears are smaller than polar bears but are still very large. They eat many things: berries, apples, honey, fish, nuts, and even deer or sheep. Brown bears have a big body, a short tail, and strong paws with claws. They sleep in a den during the cold winter. Baby brown bears are called cubs.
Head\n\nYour head is the top part of your body. Inside your head is your brain, which helps you think and remember. Your head also has your face, eyes, ears, nose, and mouth. You use your eyes to see and your ears to hear. Sometimes your head can hurt, and that is called a headache. You can wear a hat on your head to keep warm or look nice.
Jason\n\nJason is a man from old stories called Greek myths. He was a hero who sailed on a big boat named the Argos. The men who helped him were called the Argonauts. Jason went on a long trip to find a special golden sheep skin called the Golden Fleece. A woman named Medea helped him get it. Jason and Medea went to live in a city called Corinth. The story of Jason and his friends is in movies.
Baking\n\nBaking is a way of cooking food using an oven. People bake bread, cakes, cookies, pies, and other sweet treats. A person who bakes as a job is called a baker, and they sell baked goods at a bakery. To bake, you mix things like flour, water, milk, sugar, and eggs to make dough or batter. Then you put it in a pan and cook it in the oven until it is done. Baking makes food soft and yummy. Long ago, people baked bread on hot rocks by the fire. The ancient Egyptians and Greeks also baked bread and sweet things. Today, baking is still a fun way to make food at home.
Belief\n\nA belief is a strong thought that something is true. It is like when you think something is real, even if you cannot see it or prove it. Some people believe in God or gods. That is part of their religion. You can also believe something will happen, like when you say 'I think my friend will come to play today.' Belief is different from things you can test and know for sure.
Phobia\n\nA phobia is a very strong fear of something. It is not just being scared. The fear is so big that it can make a person feel very bad. People with a phobia try hard to stay away from the thing they fear. For example, some people are very afraid of spiders or high places. This kind of fear can make it hard to play or go to school. Most children have some fears, but those fears usually go away as they grow up. Doctors can help people with phobias feel less scared.
Horse racing\n\nHorse racing is a sport where horses run very fast in a race. People train special horses called racehorses to be fast runners. The horses run on a track, and the first one to cross the finish line wins. Many people watch the race and cheer for their favorite horse. Some people also bet money on which horse they think will win. There are big horse races in many countries, like the Kentucky Derby in the United States and the Melbourne Cup in Australia.
North Africa\n\nNorth Africa is the top part of the big land called Africa. It is very hot and dry, and much of it is a sandy desert where it almost never rains. Some places have tall mountains. Many different people live there, like Arabs and Berbers. Most people in North Africa follow the religion called Islam.
Working class\n\nWorking class is a word for people who do jobs that use their hands or bodies. These jobs are not for sitting at a desk all day. Workers might build houses, fix roads, or clean places. They get paid for each hour they work. Long ago, when big machines were first made, many people started doing these kinds of jobs. Some people are richer than working class, and some are poorer.
Avocado\n\nAn avocado is a fruit that looks like a green berry. It has dark green skin that can be bumpy or smooth. Inside, the avocado is light green and feels soft and creamy. Avocados come from trees that grow in warm places like Mexico and Central America. They have a lot of fat, but it is a healthy kind of fat. People use avocados to make a food called guacamole. Some animals can get very sick if they eat avocado, so we should not feed it to them.
Library\n\nA library is a place where many books are kept. Most libraries let people take books home for a few weeks. The people who work in libraries are called librarians. They help you find books and use the library. Many libraries also have magazines, music CDs, and computers. Some libraries have a special car that brings books to faraway places. Libraries are not stores that sell books. They are free to use if you live nearby. You can get a library card and borrow books without paying money. Books are kept on shelves in a special order so they are easy to find. Stories are in order by the writer's last name. Other books have numbers that tell what they are about.
Calorie\n\nA calorie is a way to measure energy in food. When you eat, your body gets energy from the food. If you eat more energy than your body uses, it saves the extra as fat. Different foods give different amounts of energy.
Search engine\n\nA search engine is a website that helps you find things on the internet. You type words into a box, and it shows you a list of web pages that have those words. The most popular search engine is Google. Others are Bing, Baidu, and Yahoo. Search engines use special computer programs to look at many web pages and pick the best ones for you. They put the most helpful pages near the top of the list. Search engines are free to use, and they help you find information quickly.
Rapid transit\n\nA metro is a train that runs very often and carries many people at one time. It is usually in a big city and takes people in and out of it. The trains go very fast because they do not mix with cars or buses. They run in tunnels under the ground, on bridges above the ground, or on tracks that go over roads. People call it different names like subway, underground, tube, or elevated. A metro has many lines that go to different places and many stations where people can get on and off. Some stations let you change from one line to another. The first metro was in London, England, and it opened a long time ago in 1863. Now many cities around the world have metros, like New York, Paris, Tokyo, and Beijing. Some metros have trains that run without a driver.
Big Bang\n\nThe Big Bang is the name scientists use for how our universe started. A long, long time ago, the whole universe was very, very small and very, very hot. Then, about 13.8 billion years ago, it got bigger and bigger very fast. That is why it is called the Big Bang. As it grew, it made stars and galaxies. The universe is still getting bigger today. Scientists know this because faraway galaxies look redder, which means they are moving away from us. The universe is also getting colder as it grows. We do not know what was there before the Big Bang, because time may have started then.
History of mathematics\n\nThe history of mathematics is the story of how people learned about numbers and shapes over a very long time. Long ago, people in places like Egypt and Babylon started counting and measuring things. Later, smart people in Greece, like Euclid and Archimedes, figured out how to prove things with math. In India, people invented the number zero and the way we write numbers today. Then math spread to other countries. Some people used math to solve hard problems, and others used it to help in wars. Today, math helps us do many things, like building houses and making computers.
Microwave oven\n\nA microwave oven is a machine that cooks food very fast. It uses special waves that make the water inside the food wiggle really fast, which makes the food hot. A man named Percy Spencer found out about this when a candy bar in his pocket melted while he was working with radio waves. He then made the first microwave oven. Inside the microwave, there is a spinning plate that turns the food around so it cooks evenly. You should not put metal in a microwave because it makes sparks. Some dry foods can catch fire if there is no water with them.
Whitefly\n\nA whitefly is a very small bug that lives on plants. It likes to sit on the bottom side of leaves and drink the plant's juice. Whiteflies are tiny and have white wings. They can fly away when you touch the leaf. Many whiteflies together can hurt a plant.
Dream\n\nA dream is a story that your mind makes up while you are sleeping. You see pictures and hear sounds in your head. Dreams can feel very real, like you are really there. Sometimes dreams are fun, and sometimes they are scary. Scary dreams are called nightmares. People have about four to six dreams every night, but they only remember the last two. Children often remember their dreams better than grown-ups. If you write down your dream right after you wake up, you can remember it better. No one knows for sure why we dream, but many people think dreams are the mind's way of thinking about things that happened during the day.
Tarsier\n\nA tarsier is a small animal that lives in trees. It has very big eyes and long feet bones. Tarsiers come out at night to hunt. They eat bugs, birds, and even snakes. They can jump from tree to tree to catch their food. Tarsiers have very good hearing and can feel things very well. A baby tarsier grows inside its mom for about six months. Tarsiers live on islands in Southeast Asia, like the Philippines and Borneo. Some people think a tarsier looks like the movie character Yoda.
Sextant\n\nA sextant is a tool that helps people find their way on the ocean. It looks like a metal triangle with a small telescope. The person using it looks through the telescope and measures how high the sun or a star is above the water. This tells them where their boat is. The name sextant comes from a word that means six, because it can measure up to one sixth of a circle.
Philippines\n\nThe Philippines is a country made of many islands in the Pacific Ocean. It has 7,641 islands. The capital city is Manila. The weather is hot and rainy most of the year. There are three seasons: hot summer, rainy season, and cool season. Many volcanoes and typhoons happen there. The highest mountain is Mount Apo. People first came to the islands a very long time ago. Spain ruled the Philippines for many years, then the United States ruled. The Philippines became its own country in 1946. Today, many people live there and speak different languages. Some problems are too much fishing, dirty water, and cutting down too many trees.
Rapeseed\n\nRapeseed is a plant with bright yellow flowers. It grows in big fields that look like a yellow blanket. People use the seeds to make oil for cooking.
Dominican Republic\n\nThe Dominican Republic is a country on an island in the Caribbean Sea. It shares the island with another country called Haiti. The capital city is Santo Domingo. The weather is warm most of the year, but it can get cold in the mountains. Many people speak Spanish there. The country grows a lot of cacao, which is used to make chocolate. There are big mountains, valleys, and rivers. Hurricanes can come from June to November. The people are a mix of different backgrounds. Many families live in cities, and some live in the countryside. The Dominican Republic has a president who is the leader of the country.
Honey badger\n\nA honey badger is a wild animal that lives in Africa and parts of Asia. It has a long body, short legs, and very strong claws for digging. Its skin is thick and loose, so it can twist and turn to fight back. Honey badgers are fearless and tough. They eat meat like small animals, birds, eggs, and even snakes. They also eat fruit and roots. They live alone in holes they dig in the ground. Honey badgers are smart and can use tools to get food. They make a hoarse sound like "khrya-ya-ya-ya." People have a hard time keeping them away from chickens because they are strong and can dig under fences.
Imperial units\n\nImperial units are a way to measure things like how long, how heavy, or how much liquid something is. A long time ago, people in the United Kingdom and other countries used these units. They measured length in inches, feet, and miles. They measured weight in pounds and ounces. They measured liquid in pints and gallons. Today, most people use metric units like meters and liters, but some Imperial units are still used for some things.
Cockatoo\n\nA cockatoo is a bird with a fancy crest on its head that it can lift up and down. Cockatoos have strong, curved beaks. Most cockatoos are white, gray, or black. They live in Australia and nearby islands. Cockatoos eat seeds and use their big beaks to crack them open. They make nests in holes in trees. Baby cockatoos are born without feathers and cannot see. Cockatoos can be pets, but some kinds are rare and need protection.
Week\n\nA week is seven days in a row. There are 52 weeks in one year. The days of the week have names like Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. In many places, Saturday and Sunday are the weekend, when people do not go to work or school. Some people go to church on Sunday.
Antenna\n\nAn antenna is a metal stick or dish that helps things like radios, TVs, and phones send and receive signals through the air. You can see antennas on houses, cars, and even in space. Some antennas are long poles, and some look like big bowls. They help you watch shows, talk on the phone, and find your way with a GPS.
Allergy\n\nAn allergy is when your body gets sick from something that is usually safe, like a food or a pet. Your body tries to protect you, but it makes a mistake. You might get itchy eyes, a runny nose, or a rash called hives. You might sneeze or cough. If you eat something you are allergic to, your tummy might hurt. Sometimes your throat can swell up and make it hard to breathe. That is very serious, and a doctor must give you special medicine to help you breathe again. Some people carry that medicine with them just in case.
Mount Etna\n\nMount Etna is a big mountain that shoots hot lava and ash into the air. It is a volcano on an island called Sicily, which is part of Italy. Mount Etna is the biggest active volcano in Europe. It wakes up and erupts every few years. When it erupts, hot lava flows down the sides of the mountain. Sometimes the lava covers houses and roads. Ash from the volcano can fly high up into the sky and even travel far away across the sea. People who live near Mount Etna have to be careful when it erupts.
Beekeeping\n\nBeekeeping is when people take care of honeybees. People keep bees to get honey, wax, and to help flowers grow. Each bee home has one big queen bee. She lays all the eggs. The other bees are her children. Some people keep bees for work, and some do it for fun. City bees can be healthier than country bees because there are fewer bad chemicals. Sometimes bees get sick or disappear, which is a problem for beekeepers.
Computer network\n\nA computer network is a group of computers that are connected together. They can share things like files or printers. Some networks use wires, and some use wireless signals. A small network close together is called a LAN. A big network that goes far away is called a WAN. The biggest WAN is the Internet. Computers in a network talk to each other using special rules called protocols. Each computer has a number called an IP address so other computers can find it.
Ursa Major\n\nUrsa Major is a group of stars in the sky that looks like a big bear. Its name means Great Bear. Many people long ago thought the stars looked like a bear with a long tail. You can see Ursa Major in the northern part of the sky. It helps people find the north star. Seven of its stars make a shape called the Big Dipper, which looks like a big spoon. The two stars on the right side of the Big Dipper point to the north star. Ursa Major has many other stars and galaxies that you can see with a telescope.
Water viper\n\nA water viper is a kind of snake that lives in the southeastern United States. It is also called a cottonmouth snake because the inside of its mouth is white. This snake is very dangerous and has poison. It lives in water places like ponds, lakes, and marshes. It eats birds, frogs, lizards, and even small turtles. If you see a snake with a white mouth, stay far away.
Textile\n\nTextile is another word for cloth or fabric. It is made by weaving or knitting threads together. People use textiles to make clothes, bags, blankets, and curtains. Textiles can be made from natural things like cotton from plants, wool from sheep, or silk from worms. They can also be made from man-made things like nylon and polyester. Long ago, people wore animal skins to keep warm. Later, they learned to weave plant fibers into cloth. Today, textiles are used for many things: carpets, towels, flags, tents, and even parachutes.
Coffee\n\nCoffee is a drink made from the seeds of a plant called the coffee plant. The seeds are called coffee beans. First, the beans are dried and roasted until they turn brown. Then they are crushed into tiny pieces. When you put the crushed beans into hot water, the water turns brown and gets the coffee taste. Coffee is usually served hot. Many people drink coffee in the morning to help them wake up. Coffee has something called caffeine that helps keep people awake. But drinking too much coffee can be bad for you. Some people drink coffee without caffeine, which is called decaf.
German language\n\nGerman is a language that people speak in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, and some other countries. Many people speak it in Europe and also in the United States and Canada. German is a little like English, but the words are put together in a different way. In German, every noun starts with a big letter. Numbers in German are said backwards, like "one-and-twenty" for 21. Some people in Switzerland speak a different kind of German that is hard for other German speakers to understand.
Cardinal direction\n\nCardinal directions are the four main ways to point: north, east, south, and west. We write them as N, E, S, and W. North points to the top of the Earth, and south points to the bottom. The sun comes up in the east in the morning and goes down in the west in the evening. A special needle in a compass can help you find north. Different old cultures gave each direction a color, like red for south or blue for east.
Iceland\n\nIceland is a country on an island in the cold ocean near the top of the world. It is between Greenland and Norway. Many mountains, volcanoes, hot springs, and glaciers cover the land. A glacier is a big, slow river of ice. Iceland has geysers that shoot hot water up into the air. The word geyser comes from a famous one in Iceland. The capital city is Reykjavik. Most people live there. People in Iceland speak Icelandic. They are mostly of Scandinavian origin. Many are Christian. Iceland has no army. Fishing is a big job there. The country gets a lot of its power from hot water under the ground.
Mesopotamia\n\nMesopotamia is a land between two big rivers called the Tigris and the Euphrates. It is in the Middle East, where Iraq is today. Long ago, people there started the first cities, like Babylon and Ur. They learned to grow food by making water go to their fields. They also made the first wheel, first to make clay pots and later to move things. The people wrote with special marks called cuneiform. A famous story from there is about a king named Gilgamesh and his friend Enkidu. Many different groups of people lived in Mesopotamia over time.
Lettuce\n\nLettuce is a green vegetable that you can eat. It is a plant that grows every year. You can eat both the leaves and the stem. Lettuce is often eaten cold in salads, on hamburgers, and in sandwiches. Some people cook it, like in China. Most lettuce leaves are green, but some are red. They taste a little bit bitter. Some kinds of lettuce grow in a round head like cabbage, and other kinds have loose leaves. The name "lettuce" comes from an old word for milk, because the juice looks like milk. People have been eating lettuce for a very long time, even the ancient Romans and Greeks.
Wren\n\nA wren is a small brown bird. It is about as long as your hand. Wrens live in many places, like Europe, Asia, North Africa, and the Americas. They have round wings and a short tail that points up. Their song is very loud for such a tiny bird. It sounds like sweet music with lots of trills. When a wren is upset, it makes a churring noise like a clock winding down.
Gecko\n\nA gecko is a small lizard that lives in warm countries. Geckos come in many colors and sizes. They are mostly awake at night. Some geckos live inside people's houses and eat bugs like mosquitoes and flies. People like having them around because they eat pests. Unlike most lizards, geckos can make sounds. They chirp or click, a little like a bird or a frog. Some geckos are named after the sound they make, like 'gecko' or 'tokay'. Most geckos lay eggs, but a few have live babies. Geckos do not have eyelids. They have a clear skin over their eyes and lick it clean with their tongue. If a gecko loses its tail, it can grow a new one. The tail helps them balance and store fat. Geckos can walk on walls and ceilings because their feet have tiny hairs that stick to surfaces. Their skin is covered in very small hairs that keep them dry and can kill germs.
Caribbean Sea\n\nThe Caribbean Sea is a big, warm body of water near the Atlantic Ocean. It is south of the Gulf of Mexico and next to places like Cuba and Central America. The water is very deep, even deeper than some oceans. There are many islands in the Caribbean Sea. People like to go there on vacation because the weather is warm and sunny. A long time ago, a man named Christopher Columbus found some of these islands. He thought they were a different place, so he called them the West Indies. Later, people named the sea after a group of people called the Caribs.
Isis\n\nIsis is a goddess from ancient Egypt. She was the goddess of life and magic. Isis protected women and children and healed sick people. She was the wife of Osiris and the mother of Horus. Isis had great powers. She could heal people and cast spells. Her symbols were a throne on her head and wings. People in Egypt and other places built temples to honor her.
Nightjar\n\nA nightjar is a bird that comes out at night or when the sun is going down. It flies around and eats bugs like moths and beetles. Nightjars live in many places around the world. They have soft feathers that help them hide on the ground or in trees. Some people call them goatsuckers or nighthawks. There are about 100 different kinds of nightjars.
Arabian Sea\n\nThe Arabian Sea is a big body of warm salt water. It is part of the Indian Ocean. The sea sits between the Arabian Peninsula and India. Many fish and other sea creatures live in the Arabian Sea. Ships sail across it to carry things from one country to another. The water is very warm.
Tsunami\n\nA tsunami is a very big wave in the ocean that moves very fast. It starts when the ground shakes under the water, like during a big earthquake. The wave can knock down trees and houses and wash away sand from the beach. Tsunamis mostly happen in the Pacific Ocean. Before a tsunami comes, the water at the beach might pull back far away. That is a warning to run to high ground. People cannot stop a tsunami, but they can watch for warnings and go somewhere safe.
Kiss\n\nA kiss is when people touch each other with their lips. People kiss to show love or to say hello. Friends might kiss on the cheek. Some kisses are quick, like a peck. Other kisses are longer. Kissing can spread germs, like a cold. But kissing also makes people feel happy.
Elevator\n\nAn elevator is a box that moves people up and down inside a tall building. You push a button to go to a different floor. The elevator has doors that open and close. It is pulled by strong ropes or pushed by a special machine. Elevators are very safe. They help people who cannot walk up stairs. Some elevators are see-through, so you can look out while you ride.
Honeyguide\n\nA honeyguide is a bird that lives in warm places like Africa and Asia. Some honeyguides show people where to find bee nests. When people open the nest, the bird eats the wax and baby bees left behind. Honeyguide mothers lay their eggs in other birds' nests. The baby honeyguide hatches first and uses its sharp beak to push out the other eggs or baby birds. This way, the honeyguide gets all the food from the other bird parents.
Speed of light\n\nThe speed of light is how fast light moves. Light travels very, very fast. It is the fastest thing in the whole universe. Nothing can go faster than light. Light from the Sun takes about 8 minutes to reach Earth. That means when you see the Sun, you are seeing light that left the Sun 8 minutes ago. The speed of light is always the same, no matter if you are moving or standing still. This is different from how a ball moves. If you throw a ball from a moving train, someone on the ground sees the ball go faster than someone on the train. But light does not act that way. Light always goes the same speed for everyone. This idea was discovered by a man named Albert Einstein. He used it to make a famous idea called special relativity. The speed of light is very important for scientists who study space and time.
Cherokee\n\nThe Cherokee are a group of Native American people. Long ago, they lived in the eastern and southern parts of the United States. They did not live in tepees. They lived in houses made from wood. A man named Sequoyah made a way to write the Cherokee language. The Cherokee had two chiefs: a red chief for war and a white chief for peace. Later, the United States government made most Cherokee people move to a place called Oklahoma.
Sword\n\nA sword is a tool for cutting, made long ago for fighting. It has a long metal part called a blade and a handle called a hilt. Some swords have a guard to keep your hand safe. Swords can be used to cut, slash, or stab. Long ago, before guns, many people used swords. Today, swords are mostly used in sports like fencing or in shows. There are many kinds of swords, like the curved saber or the straight broadsword. Some famous swords are make-believe, like King Arthur's sword Excalibur.
Mount St. Helens\n\nMount St. Helens is a volcano in the state of Washington. A volcano is a mountain that can shoot hot rocks and ash into the sky. This volcano is famous for a big explosion on May 18, 1980. Before that day, it was a tall, snowy mountain with a pointy top. Then the top blew off, and the mountain became shorter. Hot gas, rocks, and ash came out for many hours. The ash went high into the air and spread far away. Mud made from ash and melted snow rushed down the rivers. The explosion knocked down trees and destroyed houses and roads. 57 people died. After the big explosion, the volcano kept making small puffs of steam and ash for many years. A new pile of rock grew inside the hole at the top. Today, scientists watch the volcano to see if it will wake up again.
Laser\n\nA laser is a machine that makes a very strong, single-color beam of light. It uses special materials like crystals or gases to make the light. The light from a laser goes in one straight line and does not spread out like a flashlight. Lasers are used in many things you see every day. They read the music on a CD or DVD. They scan the barcodes on things at the store. Doctors use lasers to fix people's eyes. Strong lasers can cut metal. People also use small lasers as pointers to show things on a screen. Some lasers measure how far away the Moon is by bouncing light off mirrors left there.
Sawfish\n\nA sawfish is a fish that looks like a shark but is really a ray. It has a long, flat snout with little teeth on the sides, like a saw. Sawfish use their saw to dig in the sand for food and to hit other fish to stun them. They can also feel tiny movements in the water with their saw. Sawfish live in warm, shallow water near the shore.
Van\n\nA van is a big car that can carry things or people. Some vans are small and carry just a few boxes or a few people. Other vans are big and can carry many people, like a school van that takes kids to school. Some vans are used to deliver packages to your house. Vans have a big empty space in the back for putting stuff. They look like a box on wheels. Some vans have sliding doors on the side. People use vans for work, for family trips, or to move furniture from one house to another.
Lever\n\nA lever is a long stick that can move around a point called the fulcrum. Levers help us lift heavy things or move things more easily. There are three kinds of levers. In a first-class lever, the fulcrum is in the middle, like a seesaw. In a second-class lever, the load is in the middle, like a wheelbarrow. In a third-class lever, the push is in the middle, like a stapler. Your arm is also a lever. Levers are one of the six simple machines.
Dracula\n\nDracula is a scary story about a monster called a vampire. A vampire drinks blood and comes out at night. The story was written a long time ago by a man named Bram Stoker. In the story, a man named Jonathan Harker goes to a faraway place called Transylvania to meet a rich man named Dracula. But Dracula is not a man — he is a vampire. He traps Jonathan in his castle and then goes to England on a ship. In England, he bites a woman named Lucy and turns her into a vampire too. Her friends have to stop her. Then Dracula bites another woman named Mina. The friends chase Dracula all the way back to his castle and kill him so he can never hurt anyone again.
Pipe organ\n\nA pipe organ is a big musical instrument that makes sounds when air blows through pipes. A person who plays it is called an organist. The organist uses hands to play keyboards and feet to play pedals. The pipes are made of metal or wood. Small pipes make high sounds, and big pipes make low sounds. The organist can pull out knobs called stops to change how the organ sounds. Some pipes sound like flutes, and some sound like trumpets. Pipe organs are often found in churches and big halls. They can be very large and take up a whole room.
Legend\n\nA legend is a story that people tell each other. Some legends are about real people, and some are not. Legends can be about famous people, places, or things that are very old. For example, Robin Hood and the Loch Ness Monster are legends. People have told these stories for a very long time.
Starfish\n\nA starfish is an animal that lives in the ocean on the sea floor. It has five or more arms that come out from a round center. Starfish do not have a brain or blood. They use sea water to move things around inside their bodies. Most starfish eat clams, mussels, and other shell animals. They can pull open the shells with their tiny tube feet and put their stomach inside to eat. Starfish can grow back arms if they lose them. If an arm has a little piece of the center, a whole new starfish can grow from it.
Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nSaint Kitts and Nevis is a small country made of two islands in the Caribbean Sea. It is the smallest country in the Americas. The capital city is Basseterre, on the bigger island called Saint Kitts. The other island is Nevis. The islands have tall mountains covered in rainforest. Many rivers flow down from the mountains. People live near the sea. Cricket is a popular sport there. The country once helped host the Cricket World Cup. Some runners from Saint Kitts and Nevis have won medals in big races.
Circadian rhythm\n\nA circadian rhythm is like a clock inside your body that runs for about one whole day. It tells you when to wake up and when to feel sleepy. Plants and animals have this clock too. It helps flowers open at the right time and animals know when to rest. Your body uses this clock for eating, sleeping, and staying warm. When the sun comes up, your clock says it is time to be awake. When it gets dark, your clock says it is time to sleep.
Stove\n\nA stove is a thing that gets very hot. Some stoves burn wood or coal to make a room warm. A kitchen stove is used for cooking food. It has hot parts on top where you put pots and pans. Some stoves have an oven underneath for baking bread and cakes.
Word\n\nA word is something you say with your mouth that has meaning. Words are part of sentences. You can also write words with letters. Some words have more than one meaning, like 'spring' which can be a season or a thing that bounces. Some words sound the same but are spelled differently. Every language has its own words. You can find the meaning of words in a dictionary.
Gallon\n\nA gallon is a way to measure how much liquid something can hold. People use gallons to buy gas for cars. In some countries, a gallon is a little bigger than 4 big water bottles. In other countries, a gallon is a little smaller than that. Different places use different kinds of gallons.
Brahma\n\nBrahma is a god in the Hindu religion. He is the one who made the whole world and everything in it. Brahma is one of three very important gods. The other two are Vishnu, who takes care of the world, and Shiva, who changes things when they are old.
Tense (grammar)\n\nTense is a way to show when something happens. There are three main tenses: past, present, and future. Past tense tells about things that already happened, like 'I walked'. Present tense tells about things happening now, like 'I walk'. Future tense tells about things that will happen, like 'I will walk'. Sometimes we change the word to show tense, like 'be' becomes 'was' for past. Other times we add words like 'will' for future. Some languages, like Chinese, add new words instead of changing the verb.
African buffalo\n\nThe African buffalo is a big animal with hooves. It is also called the Cape buffalo. It can be very tall and heavy. The males are bigger than the females. African buffaloes are strong and can fight off lions and crocodiles. They eat grass and plants. They are not tame like cows. Some people think they are very dangerous.
Aurora\n\nAn aurora is colorful light in the sky. It is also called the northern lights or southern lights. You can see it at night near the North Pole or South Pole. The lights look like green, red, and purple curtains moving in the sky. They happen when tiny bits from the Sun hit the air around Earth. The lights can stretch for many miles. People have told stories about the aurora for a long time. You can even see stars through the lights. Other planets like Jupiter and Saturn have auroras too.
Rosetta Stone\n\nThe Rosetta Stone is a big stone with writing carved into it. It has three kinds of writing: Greek, Egyptian, and another Egyptian writing. French soldiers found it in Egypt a long time ago, in 1799. The stone helped people learn how to read the old Egyptian picture writing called hieroglyphics. The writing on the stone said the same thing in two languages. People already knew how to read the Greek part, so they used it to figure out the Egyptian parts. The stone is named after the city where it was found, Rosetta. Now it is in a museum in London called the British Museum.
Circuit breaker\n\nA circuit breaker is a special switch that turns off the power when too much electricity flows. This can happen if you plug in too many things or if something goes wrong with the wires. The circuit breaker lives in a metal box in your house. Inside, there is a coil that pulls the switch when too much electricity passes through. There is also a strip that bends when it gets hot and turns the power off. A circuit breaker works like a fuse, but you do not have to throw it away. You can just flip the switch back on.
Temple\n\nA temple is a special building where people go to pray and do things for their religion. Different religions have different names for their temples. Christians call their temples churches. People go to temples to be quiet, to think, and to talk to God. Some temples are very old and have pretty statues and pictures inside.
Natural gas\n\nNatural gas is a mix of gases that comes from deep in the ground. It is mostly made of a gas called methane. People use natural gas to make heat and energy. It burns with a blue flame. We use it to cook food, heat our homes, and make electricity. Natural gas travels through pipes to get to houses and factories. It can also be used to make things like plastic and fertilizer for plants.
Cucumber\n\nA cucumber is a green food that grows on a climbing plant. It looks like a long, bumpy tube. Cucumbers need warm weather, sun, and water to grow. People can eat them raw, cook them, or put them in vinegar to make pickles. Some people take out the inside and fill it with other food like cheese. Cucumbers are fruits, but most people call them vegetables.
Microwave\n\nA microwave is a kind of wave that you cannot see. It is like light, but your eyes cannot see it. Microwaves can go through the air and through some things. People use microwaves to heat up food in a microwave oven. The oven makes the tiny bits inside the food move very fast, and that makes the food hot. Microwaves are also used to talk to spaceships far away. You should never put your hand inside a microwave oven when it is on, because the waves can hurt you.
Rio Grande\n\nThe Rio Grande is a very long river. It starts high up in the mountains in Colorado. Then it flows through New Mexico and Texas. It also makes the line between the United States and Mexico. The river ends in the Gulf of Mexico, which is a big body of water. The name Rio Grande means "big river" in Spanish.
Autocracy\n\nAutocracy is a way of running a country where one person has all the power. That person, called an autocrat, makes every rule and choice. No one else can say no. The autocrat may use tricks, lies, or force to keep control. Some countries with an autocracy have a king or queen who makes all the rules. Other countries have a dictator who took power by force. In an autocracy, people cannot vote for their leaders or say what they want freely. Long ago, many countries were run this way. Today, some countries still are.
Joke\n\nA joke is something you say or do to make people laugh. Some jokes are questions with funny answers. Some jokes are stories with a surprise at the end. You can find jokes in books, on the internet, or from your friends. Jokes can be about anything. Some jokes can hurt people's feelings, so it is important to be kind. People tell jokes in movies and plays. An example of a joke is: Why did the chicken cross the road? To get to the other side.
Arachnid\n\nArachnids are animals with eight legs. They have two body parts and no wings or antennae. Spiders, scorpions, ticks, and mites are all arachnids. Arachnids have a hard outside shell. Most arachnids eat bugs and other small animals. They use their front legs to grab food and put juice on it to make it soft. Then they suck up the food. The word 'arachnid' comes from a story about a girl named Arachne who was turned into a spider.
Birmingham\n\nBirmingham is a big city in England. It is the second biggest city in the United Kingdom. Many people live there. Long ago, Birmingham was a small town. Then it grew big because people made things there, like weapons and food. They also made airplanes called Spitfires for a big war. Today, they make Jaguar and Land Rover cars. Birmingham has canals, which are like water roads for boats. It also has many roads and motorways for cars.
Long jump\n\nThe long jump is a sport where people try to jump as far as they can. First, they run very fast down a path. Then they jump into a big pit filled with soft sand. The person who jumps the farthest wins. There is a line on the ground, and you must not step past it when you jump. If you fall backwards, you might not jump as far.
Iron\n\nIron is a metal. It is strong and cheap. People use iron to make buildings, bridges, nails, and screws. Iron is magnetic, so a magnet can pull it. When iron gets wet and stays in the air, it turns into rust. Rust is a brown, flaky stuff that makes iron fall apart. Iron is also in your body. It helps your blood carry air to your muscles. You can find iron in meat and some cereals. Too much iron can make you sick, but a little bit is good for you.
Costa Rica\n\nCosta Rica is a country in Central America. It is between Nicaragua and Panama. The Pacific Ocean is on one side, and the Caribbean Sea is on the other side. The people there speak Spanish. The capital city is San José. Costa Rica does not have an army. Instead, it spends money on schools and doctors. Many trees and animals live there. There are lots of national parks where you can see monkeys, birds, and colorful frogs. The weather is warm all year. It has two seasons: a dry season and a rainy season. Coffee and bananas grow there and are sent to other countries.
Wolverine\n\nA wolverine is a strong animal that looks a little like a small bear. It has brown fur that keeps it warm in very cold places. Wolverines live in snowy places like Canada, Alaska, and Siberia. They have big feet that help them walk on top of snow. Wolverines eat many kinds of food, like mice, birds, and eggs. They are very strong and can catch animals bigger than themselves. A mother wolverine has one to three babies, called kits, in a den under the snow. People hunt wolverines for their warm fur. Wolverines have a very good nose and can smell food under the snow.
Beetle\n\nA beetle is a kind of insect. There are many, many kinds of beetles all over the world. They live almost everywhere except in the ocean and very cold places like Antarctica. A beetle has a hard, shiny body on the outside. Its body has three parts: the head, the middle part, and the back part. On its head, a beetle has two feelers, two eyes, and a mouth. It has six legs and two pairs of wings. The front wings are hard covers that protect the back wings. When a beetle wants to fly, it lifts the hard covers up. Not all beetles can fly. Some have no back wings, and some have no wings at all. Beetles use their legs to walk, run, swim, or dig. Some beetles can jump. Beetles see with big eyes that are made of many tiny parts. They smell and feel with their feelers. A beetle's mouth has two hard parts that crush and cut food. Beetles do not breathe like we do. They have tiny holes on their sides that let air in. Beetles start as eggs. A baby beetle comes out of the egg. It looks very different from the grown-up beetle. The baby eats and grows, then turns into a pupa. When the pupa opens, a grown-up beetle comes out. Beetles eat many things, like plants, dead plants, dead animals, and animal poop. Some beetles eat only one kind of food. Beetles have ways to stay safe. Some hide. Some have colors that make them hard to see. Some have bright colors to warn other animals that they taste bad. Some beetles spray bad-smelling liquid. Some big beetles fight with their mouth parts. Male beetles sometimes fight each other to get a female. Then the female lays eggs, and the whole life starts again.
Sirius\n\nSirius is the brightest star in the night sky. It is actually two stars that go around each other. One star is called Sirius A, and it is bigger and brighter than our Sun. The other star is called Sirius B, and it is a small, hot star that used to be big but now is tiny. Sirius looks very bright because it is close to Earth. Long ago, people in Egypt watched Sirius to know when the river would flood. Some people call Sirius the Dog Star. The hottest days of summer are sometimes called the dog days of summer.
Adaptation\n\nAdaptation is how animals and plants change over a very long time to live better in their home. A horse has teeth that keep growing so it can eat grass all day without wearing them down. Horses can also run very fast to get away from lions. Birds have different beaks for eating different foods. Some animals live in dark caves and lose their eyes because they do not need them anymore. Adaptations are not perfect; they are a trade-off. For example, a peacock has a big, colorful tail to find a mate, but that tail makes it hard to fly and easy for enemies to see.
Supernova\n\nA supernova is a giant star that blows up. It happens when a very big star runs out of energy and its middle part falls in. Then the whole star explodes with a huge bang. The explosion is so bright that it can shine more than a whole galaxy for a little while. After the explosion, what is left can become a black hole or a neutron star. Most stars are small and do not explode. They just get colder and smaller. Supernovas do not happen very often. The last time people saw one in our own galaxy was in the year 1604. But we see about 300 supernovas in other galaxies every year. Supernovas are important because they make heavy elements. Those are the special things that living things need. Without supernovas, there would be no life on Earth. A supernova close to Earth could be dangerous, but there are no big stars near us that could explode.
Chinese New Year\n\nChinese New Year is a big holiday for Chinese people all over the world. It happens in winter, between January 21 and February 20, because it follows the moon. The holiday is a time for family to get together and eat big meals. Children get red envelopes with money inside as gifts. The holiday lasts for 15 days and ends with a Lantern Festival. Each year is named after an animal, like Rat, Ox, Tiger, Rabbit, Dragon, Snake, Horse, Goat, Monkey, Rooster, Dog, or Pig. People think the animal of your birth year can tell something about you.
Water vapor\n\nWater vapor is water that has turned into a gas you cannot see. When water gets very hot, it changes from liquid to gas. This is part of the water cycle. Steam is not water vapor; steam is tiny drops of liquid water floating in the air. Real water vapor is invisible. It is lighter than air, so it rises up. The amount of water vapor in the air is called humidity. Warm air can hold more water vapor than cold air. When water vapor cools down, it turns back into liquid water and makes clouds or fog.
Wild boar\n\nA wild boar is a big, strong animal that looks like a pig. It has a large head, short legs, and a tail that moves fast to show how it feels. Wild boars live in many places around the world, like forests and grasslands. They eat both plants and small animals. A mother wild boar gives birth to 4 to 6 babies, called piglets. The piglets are small and drink their mother's milk. After a few weeks, they start eating worms and bugs. Long ago, people used the hair from a wild boar's neck to make toothbrushes because the hair was soft.
Isaac\n\nIsaac is a man from a very old story in the Bible. He was the son of Abraham and Sarah. God told them they would have a baby, but they were very old and laughed. So they named the baby Isaac, which means laughter. Isaac grew up and married Rebecca. He had two sons named Esau and Jacob.
Soil\n\nSoil is the dirt on the ground where plants grow. It is made of tiny pieces of rock, water, air, and old dead plants and animals. Plants put their roots in soil to stand up and get food and water. Many animals live in soil, like worms and bugs. Worms make holes that let air and water go into the soil. Soil has different sizes of rock pieces: sand feels rough, silt feels smooth, and clay feels slippery. The best soil for growing food has a mix of sand, silt, and clay. Soil also has layers. The top layer has lots of old dead plants, and deeper down there is more rock. Soil is different in different places because the weather and rocks are different.
Bacteria\n\nBacteria are very tiny living things. They are so small you can only see them with a microscope. Each bacterium is just one cell. Bacteria live almost everywhere: in the ground, in water, and even inside your body. Some bacteria can make you sick, but many are helpful. Helpful bacteria help your body digest food and are used to make cheese and yogurt. Bacteria make more bacteria by splitting in half. They come in different shapes: some are round like balls, some are long like rods, and some are twisty like spirals.
Runes\n\nRunes are very old letters that people in Scandinavia used a long time ago, before they started using the letters we use today. The first six rune letters are F, U, A, R, K, and that is why the rune alphabet is called Fuark. People carved runes into big stones, called runestones, and you can find these stones in places like Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. Runes were used to write poems and stories. Some people still use runes today for secret codes. A famous writer named J. R. R. Tolkien used runes in his books about hobbits and elves.
Rhododendron\n\nA rhododendron is a plant with pretty flowers. It grows in many places, mostly in Asia. Some rhododendrons have green leaves all year, and some lose their leaves in winter. The flowers are very bright and colorful. Many people grow rhododendrons in their garden or in a pot. A kind of rhododendron is called an azalea. It is the special flower of a country called Nepal.
Giant\n\nA giant is a very big make-believe person. In old stories, giants are much bigger and stronger than real people. Some stories say giants live in faraway lands or on top of tall mountains. They are not real, but people like to tell tales about them.
Norwegian Sea\n\nThe Norwegian Sea is a big body of salt water next to Norway. It is part of the Atlantic Ocean. The sea is very deep, about two kilometers down. Warm water from the Atlantic keeps it from freezing, even in winter. Many fish live there, like herring and cod. Whales also visit the sea to eat the fish. People catch fish and find oil and gas under the sea floor. Birds like puffins and seagulls live near the water.
Mangrove\n\nMangroves are trees that grow in salty water near the ocean in hot places. They have twisted roots that stick up out of the mud like little straws to help them breathe. Their seeds fall from the tree and start growing as soon as they touch dirt or water. The roots catch dirt and sand, which can make new land or small islands over time. Mangroves help keep the water clean for fish and coral reefs. Many fish, shrimp, and crabs live in the mangrove roots.
Coronavirus\n\nCoronavirus is a tiny germ that can make people and animals sick. It is so small you cannot see it without a special tool. The name means "crown" because the germ looks like it has a crown on its outside. Some coronaviruses give people a mild cold, but others can make them very sick. The most famous one is the kind that caused COVID-19. People can catch the germ from each other when they cough or sneeze. Washing hands and staying home when sick helps stop the germ from spreading.
Bible\n\nThe Bible is a very special book that many people love. It is actually a group of books all put together. The word "Bible" means "books" in an old language. The Bible is the best-selling book in the whole world. Many people believe it tells about God. The Bible has two big parts. The first part is called the Old Testament. It tells old stories about God and people long ago. One story is about Noah and his big boat called an ark. The second part is called the New Testament. It tells about Jesus, who was born, lived, taught people, and helped them. It also tells about his friends who shared his stories. The Bible was written a very long time ago in different languages. Now people can read it in many languages, including English. Some parts of the Bible are songs and poems. Other parts are stories and rules. Many families read the Bible at home or at a place called church.
Trail\n\nA trail is a path in nature where people can walk. Some trails are for walking only, and some are for bikes or horses. Trails can be short for a quick walk or very long, even more than a thousand miles. People use trails to see trees, animals, and pretty views. Some trails have stairs made of dirt or rocks to go up hills. In winter, people make trails in the snow for skiing.
Company\n\nA company is a group of people who work together to do something. It can be a small business or a big one. The law treats a company like its own person. This means the company is in charge if something goes wrong, not the people who work there. A company can keep going even if the people in it leave. People can own parts of a company, which are called shares. Many companies are run by the people who own them. A company starts when the government says it can.
Grazer\n\nA grazer is an animal that eats grass. Grazers have special teeth and tummies to help them chew and digest grass. Horses are grazers. Cows and sheep are grazers too. If grazers eat too much grass in one place and do not let it grow back, that is called overgrazing.
Ink\n\nInk is a colored liquid that people use to write, draw, or print. It comes in many colors like black, blue, red, and green. You can find ink inside pens and printers. Long ago, people made ink from soot and water. Today, ink is made from special dyes. Some ink can smudge if it gets wet, so you have to be careful. Ballpoint pens use a thick ink that does not leak, so you can write with them anywhere.
Noise\n\nNoise is a sound that you do not want to hear. It can be too loud and hurt your ears. Loud noise for a long time can make it hard to hear. People measure noise with a tool. Some noise, like white noise, sounds like a soft hiss and can help you sleep. Other noise comes from cars, people talking, or machines. Many things are made to make less noise so sounds are clear.
Laundry\n\nLaundry is washing your clothes to make them clean. You can do laundry in a special room called a laundry room. Some houses have a laundry room, and some big buildings share one. There are also stores called laundromats where you can wash your clothes. To do laundry, you put soap and water on the clothes and move them around a lot. Then you rinse them in clean water. You can wash clothes by hand or use a washing machine. After washing, you dry the clothes in a dryer or hang them on a clothesline. Sometimes people iron the dry clothes to make them smooth.
Antigua and Barbuda\n\nAntigua and Barbuda is a country made of two islands in the warm Caribbean Sea. The islands are near the big Atlantic Ocean. The capital city is St. John's, on the island of Antigua. About 81,800 people live there. Long ago, the first people to live there were hunters and farmers. Later, people from Europe came on ships. They brought many people from Africa to work on farms growing sugar. Today, many people visit Antigua and Barbuda for vacation. They enjoy the sunny beaches and warm weather. The people speak English and a special way of talking called Antiguan Creole.
Shinto\n\nShinto is a kind of religion from Japan. It has many spirits called kami. Some kami are spirits of places like mountains or rivers. One important kami is the sun goddess named Amaterasu. The word Shinto means 'the way of the gods.' People in Japan sometimes go to shrines to say hello to the kami. They have festivals with music and dancing. Some people also follow Buddhist ways at the same time.
Chinese characters\n\nChinese characters are special pictures that people use to write in Chinese and Japanese. A long, long time ago, people in Korea and Vietnam also used them. These pictures are very old, more than 3000 years old. In Chinese, they are called "hanzi," which means "Han character." In Japanese, they are called "kanji." Each character stands for a whole word, not just a sound. Long ago, many characters were simple drawings of things, like a picture of a tree or a house. Today, most characters are made by putting two or more simple pictures together. Some characters show what a word means, and some help you know how to say the word. Nobody knows exactly how many Chinese characters there are, but big dictionaries list about fifty thousand. Most people only need to know three or four thousand to read and write every day. Writing Chinese characters nicely is called calligraphy, and it is a kind of art.
Cormorant\n\nA cormorant is a bird that lives near water. It has dark feathers and a long, thin beak with a hook at the end. Its feet have skin between all four toes to help it swim. A cormorant can dive under water for up to 4 minutes to catch fish. Some cormorants have bright blue, orange, red, or yellow skin on their faces. They live on rocky shores, islands, and near lakes and rivers.
Chrysanthemum\n\nA chrysanthemum is a flower that comes in many colors like yellow, white, pink, and red. It has many tiny petals that grow close together in a round shape. These flowers come from Asia and Europe. People like to plant them in gardens or put them in vases inside their homes. They bloom in the fall when the weather gets cooler.
Communications satellite\n\nA communications satellite is a big machine that goes up into space. It sends signals from one place on Earth to another. The signals can be TV shows, phone calls, or internet. The satellite stays high above the ground and moves around the Earth. It helps people talk to each other even when they are far away, like on a ship in the ocean. Some satellites send many TV channels to homes. The first person to think of using satellites for talking was Arthur C. Clarke. Now we have many satellites in space that help us every day.
Bed\n\nA bed is a piece of furniture that people sleep on. It has a soft mattress on a frame. Many beds have sheets to cover the mattress and a pillow for your head. Beds come in different sizes like single, double, and king. Long ago, people slept on piles of straw or leaves. Some old beds had ash underneath to keep bugs away. Today, there are many kinds of beds, including camp cots and air mattresses.
Karakoram\n\nThe Karakoram is a very tall mountain range in Asia. It is the second highest mountain range in the world, after the Himalayas. The name means "black gravel" in an old language. The Karakoram has eight very high mountains, and the tallest one is called K2. K2 is the second highest mountain on Earth. The mountains are covered with ice and snow, and there are many big glaciers there. Glaciers are like slow-moving rivers of ice. The Karakoram has more glaciers than almost anywhere else. Some of the glaciers are very long, like the Siachen Glacier and the Biafo Glacier. The mountains also have lakes and hot springs. The Karakoram is in several countries, including China, India, and Pakistan. It helps keep the wind from Siberia from blowing into a place called Kashmir.
Carrot\n\nA carrot is a plant that grows in the ground. The part we eat is the orange root. Carrots can be eaten raw or cooked. They are crunchy and taste a little sweet. Carrots are good for your eyes and help keep you healthy. You can find them in many dishes like salads and soups.
Centaur\n\nA centaur is a make-believe creature from old stories. It has a person's head, arms, and chest on top, and a horse's body and legs on the bottom. Some centaurs are girls. They lived in faraway lands like Thessaly and Cyprus. Centaurs were wild and free, just like wild horses. Two famous centaurs are Chiron and Nessus.
Silkworm\n\nA silkworm is a baby moth that makes silk. It is a caterpillar that eats mulberry leaves. Silkworms live only with people, not in the wild. A mother silkworm lays about 300 tiny eggs on mulberry leaves. The eggs hatch into little worms. The worm spins a soft, shiny house called a cocoon. The cocoon is made of one long, thin thread of silk. People boil the cocoons to get the silk thread. They use the silk to make clothes and other things. Adult silkworms are white and fuzzy. They have wings but cannot fly. They do not eat. In some places, people eat silkworm pupae as a snack.
Aardvark\n\nAn aardvark is an animal from Africa. Its name means "earth pig" because it digs in the ground. An aardvark has a long nose, a long sticky tongue, and a thin body. Its fur is pale yellow-gray and sometimes looks red from dirt. It has short hair on its head and tail, but longer hair on its legs. An aardvark is awake at night and sleeps during the day. It eats ants and termites by licking them up with its long tongue. It can dig a tunnel very fast. It is a good swimmer. A baby aardvark is called a cub. The cub stays with its mother until it is big enough to dig its own home.
Houston\n\nHouston is a big city in Texas. Many people live there, more than 2 million. It is named after a man named Samuel Houston. Houston has a place where astronauts work, called the Johnson Space Center. It also has a big hospital area called the Texas Medical Center. There are two big airports in Houston. People in Houston like sports. They have baseball, basketball, football, and soccer teams. The weather in Houston is warm and wet.
Haiku\n\nA haiku is a short poem from Japan. It has three parts. The first part has five sounds. The second part has seven sounds. The third part has five sounds. Many haiku talk about nature or the seasons. In English, people write haiku on three lines.
Ten Commandments\n\nThe Ten Commandments are ten special rules that the Bible says God gave to the people of Israel a long time ago. These rules were written on two flat stones. They tell people how to be good and kind. Some of the rules are: do not steal, do not lie, do not hurt other people, and love your mom and dad. Another rule says to rest on a special day of the week. These rules are very important for Jewish and Christian people.
Hoe (tool)\n\nA hoe is a tool used in farming and gardening. It has a long handle, usually made of wood, with a flat metal piece at the end. People use a hoe to pull out weeds from the ground. They also use it to shape the dirt and dig up vegetables like potatoes that grow underground. A hoe is a very important tool for people who grow food.
Veganism\n\nVeganism is when people choose not to use animals. Vegans do not eat meat, eggs, or milk. They also do not use things made from animals, like leather or wool. Instead, they eat fruits, vegetables, beans, grains, nuts, and seeds. Some people become vegan because they want to help animals or the planet. Vegans need to eat special foods to get all the vitamins their bodies need.
Great Britain\n\nGreat Britain is a big island in the ocean near Europe. It is the biggest island in Europe. Three countries are on Great Britain: England, Scotland, and Wales. The biggest city on the island is London. Great Britain is part of the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom also includes Northern Ireland, but Northern Ireland is not on the island of Great Britain. Some people call the United Kingdom "Great Britain," but that is not quite right. Great Britain is just the island, not the whole country.
Turkmenistan\n\nTurkmenistan is a country in the middle of Asia. It is next to Afghanistan, Iran, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan. It does not touch the ocean, but it touches the Caspian Sea. The capital city is Ashgabat. Most of the country is very dry desert. It is one of the driest places in the world. The big desert is called the Karakum Desert. The weather is hot in summer and mild in winter. Turkmenistan used to be part of a big group of countries called the Soviet Union. It became its own country in 1991.
Steamboat\n\nA steamboat is a kind of boat that moves using steam. Steam is made when water gets very hot and turns into a cloud. The steam pushes the boat through the water. Some old steamboats had big wheels with paddles on the sides or at the back. These boats went up and down rivers. Later, steamboats got faster and could go in the ocean. People used steamboats to travel and carry things long ago.
Information technology\n\nInformation technology is a big word for using computers and machines to handle information. Information is things like words, pictures, sounds, and videos. People use information technology to save pictures, send messages, play games, and watch movies on phones and computers. It helps people all over the world talk to each other. Many jobs use information technology to keep information safe and easy to find.
Christ the Redeemer (statue)\n\nChrist the Redeemer is a big statue of Jesus Christ. It stands on top of a tall mountain called Corcovado in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The statue looks over the whole city. It was built a long time ago, between 1922 and 1931. Workers climbed up high to build it, and no one got hurt, which people thought was a miracle. The statue was made in France and then brought to Brazil. Sometimes lightning hits the statue, so workers put special rods on it to keep it safe. Many people visit the statue to see the beautiful view.
History of science\n\nThe history of science is about how people learned about the world around them. A long time ago, people who studied nature were called natural philosophers. They watched the sky, the stars, and the animals. Some old Greek people, like Thales and Aristotle, were very interested in how things work. Later, smart people like Isaac Newton and Albert Einstein helped us understand more. Today, scientists use special ways to learn new things, and that is called science.
Encyclopedia\n\nAn encyclopedia is a book or a website with lots of information. It tells you about many different things, like animals, places, and people. Long ago, all encyclopedias were printed in books. Now, many are on the internet. The biggest English encyclopedia is called Wikipedia. It has millions of articles. Some encyclopedias are about one thing, like medicine or ships. Others have facts about everything. You can look up words in an encyclopedia to learn new things.
Energy\n\nEnergy is what makes things move, grow, and change. The sun gives us energy to keep warm. Food gives us energy to run and play. Energy can be in many forms, like heat, light, and sound. You cannot see energy, but you can see what it does. A ball rolling has energy. A fire gives off heat energy. Energy never goes away. It just changes from one kind to another. When you eat food, your body turns it into energy to play. When you turn on a light, electricity changes into light and heat. Scientists measure energy in units called joules.
Eastern Europe\n\nEastern Europe is a big part of the continent called Europe. It is the eastern side of Europe. Long ago, it meant the countries that followed a certain kind of church. Later, it meant the countries that were friends with the Soviet Union. Today, people use it to talk about countries like Poland, Ukraine, and Russia. Many people in Eastern Europe speak Slavic languages. There are also many Roma people, sometimes called gypsies. Some countries in Eastern Europe are also called Central Europe or Southeastern Europe.
Service (economics)\n\nA service is something people do for you, like cutting your hair or fixing a broken toy. You pay for the work, not for a thing you can hold. When someone mows your grass, that is a service. When a builder makes a house, that is also a service, and you get a house at the end. You do not own the service, but you might own what the service makes.
Malaysia\n\nMalaysia is a country in Southeast Asia. It has many people from different groups, like Malay, Chinese, and Indian. The country has 13 states and 3 special areas. Kuala Lumpur is the biggest city. Malaysia is hot and has lots of forests and animals. People there speak Malay, English, Chinese, and Tamil. The king is called the Yang di-Pertuan Agong. The leader of the government is the Prime Minister. Malaysia makes things like electronics and grows food like rice. People eat spicy noodles called laksa and drink a sweet tea called teh tarik. Badminton player Lee Chong Wei and squash player Nicol David are famous athletes from Malaysia.
Tire\n\nA tire is a round ring made of rubber that goes around a wheel. Cars, trucks, and many other vehicles use tires to move smoothly. Tires help the vehicle grip the road so it does not slip. Tires come in different sizes and have patterns on them to help with grip. Some tires are made for snow and ice, and some are made for dirt and rocks. Tires can get holes from nails, and then they lose air. When the patterns on a tire wear away, it is time to get new tires.
Halley's Comet\n\nHalley's Comet is a big ball of ice and dust that flies through space. It comes near Earth every 75 or 76 years. You can see it in the sky without a telescope. A man named Edmond Halley figured out that it comes back again and again. The last time it came close was in 1986. Some space robots flew near it and took pictures. They found out that the comet is made of ice, dust, and frozen gases. When it gets close to the Sun, the ice melts and makes a long, bright tail. The next time Halley's Comet will be near Earth is in the year 2061.
Dimetrodon\n\nDimetrodon was an animal that lived a very long time ago, before dinosaurs. It walked on four legs and had a big head with sharp teeth. The most special thing about Dimetrodon was the big sail on its back. The sail was made of long bones with skin in between. Dimetrodon used its sail to warm up in the sun or cool down in the shade. It ate meat and was a top hunter. Fossils of Dimetrodon have been found in the United States and Germany.
Ho Chi Minh City\n\nHo Chi Minh City is a big city in southern Vietnam. It is the biggest city in Vietnam, and about 9 million people live there. Long ago, the city was called Saigon, and many people still call it Saigon today. The city is very flat, like a big table. When it rains a lot, the streets can get flooded with water. The city has many trees, and fresh food markets are everywhere. There are also wetlands with birds, monkeys, and snakes. People in the city speak Vietnamese, and many are learning English. The city has many hospitals and schools. Some people are very rich, and some are very poor. There are many fun places to eat and play.
Pickling\n\nPickling is a way to keep food good to eat for a long time. You put food in vinegar or salty water, and then close it in a jar. This makes the food taste different. It stops tiny germs from growing. People often add things like garlic or cinnamon to make it taste even better. Some foods that get pickled are eggs, onions, and other vegetables.
Globe\n\nA globe is a round ball that shows the whole world. It is a small model of the Earth. The globe is shaped like a ball, just like the real Earth. You can spin it around to see all the countries and oceans. Some globes show mountains and rivers. Others show the names of countries. A globe helps you see how big the world is and where different places are.
Czech language\n\nCzech is a language that people speak in a country called the Czech Republic. About ten million people use it to talk to each other. It sounds a lot like another language called Slovak, and people who speak Czech can understand Slovak speakers. Learning Czech can be hard because the words change their endings a lot, just like in Latin.
Athens\n\nAthens is a big city in Greece. It is one of the oldest cities in the world. Many people live there. The city has a famous old building called the Parthenon. Long ago, people in Athens started the first democracy, where people vote. Athens has a big airport and trains that go under the ground. There are also museums with old things to see.
Calligraphy\n\nCalligraphy is a way of writing that makes words look pretty. People use special pens or brushes to make the letters fancy. Long ago, people in some countries thought calligraphy was a very important art. Today, even school children learn to do it.
Canada\n\nCanada is a big country in North America. It is the second biggest country in the whole world. Canada has three oceans next to it: the Atlantic Ocean, the Pacific Ocean, and the Arctic Ocean. Most people in Canada live near the bottom part of the country, close to the United States. The biggest city is Toronto, and the capital city is Ottawa. Canada is very cold in winter, but warm in summer in the south. There are lots of forests and lakes. Canada has ten parts called provinces and three parts called territories. People in Canada can speak English or French. Long ago, people called Indigenous people lived there first. Then people from France and England came to live there too. Canada became its own country on July 1, 1867.
Plum\n\nA plum is a sweet fruit that grows on a tree. Plums can be purple, red, yellow, green, or white. They have a groove on one side and a big seed inside. The skin is soft and you can eat it. Plums are juicy and taste sweet. Some plums are sour and need sugar. When plums are dried, they are called prunes. You can make jam from plums. Plum trees have white flowers in spring and sometimes have thorns.
Sub-Saharan Africa\n\nSub-Saharan Africa is the part of Africa that is below the big hot desert called the Sahara. It has many countries with lots of different people, animals, and plants. The weather is warm, and there are big forests, grasslands, and rivers. Many children live there and play outside.
Wheelbarrow\n\nA wheelbarrow is a small cart that you push with your hands. It has one wheel in the front and two long handles in the back. People use it in gardens to carry heavy things like dirt, rocks, or plants. You put the heavy stuff in the big bucket part, then lift the handles and push. Some wheelbarrows have two wheels instead of one.
Movie festival\n\nA movie festival is a special time when many movies are shown to people. People go to a big building to watch different movies. Some movies are new and some are old. People clap for the movies they like. Sometimes the best movies get a prize.
Symmetry\n\nSymmetry is when something looks the same on both sides. If you draw a line down the middle of a picture, and both sides match, that is symmetry. A butterfly has symmetry because its left wing looks like its right wing. A square also has symmetry. Some things look the same even when you turn them around. That is another kind of symmetry. Many things in nature, like flowers and snowflakes, have symmetry.
Swimming pool\n\nA swimming pool is a big hole in the ground or a big tub filled with water. People go in the water to swim, play, or cool off when it is hot outside. Some pools are inside a building so you can swim even when it rains. Most pools are outside. The water is kept clean with a special chemical called chlorine that kills germs. A pump and a filter help keep the water clean too.
Image scanner\n\nAn image scanner is a machine that takes a picture of a paper or a photo and puts it into a computer. You put the paper on the glass, and the scanner shines a light on it. Then it turns the light into a picture on the computer screen. You can save that picture or print it out. Some scanners can also read words and turn them into text you can type with.
Foundation (engineering)\n\nA foundation is the bottom part of a building. It sits on the ground and holds the building up. A building needs a strong foundation to stand for a long time. To make a foundation, people dig a deep hole in the ground. They fill the hole with hard stuff like concrete. Sometimes they put long thin pieces of steel inside to make it even stronger. When the concrete dries hard, the building can be built on top.
Shrimp\n\nShrimp are small animals that live in water. They have a hard shell on the outside and many legs. Shrimp can swim backwards very fast. They live near the bottom of the ocean, rivers, and lakes. Shrimp eat tiny bits of food from the water. Bigger animals like fish and whales eat shrimp for dinner. People also eat shrimp. We take off the head and shell and eat the tail part. Shrimp are related to prawns, but prawns are bigger. A shrimp's heart is inside its head.
Tropic of Capricorn\n\nThe Tropic of Capricorn is an invisible line on a map of the Earth. It goes around the middle part of the Earth, below the middle. It is very far south. The sun shines right above this line on one special day each year. That day is in December, when it is winter for us. The line passes through some countries like Australia, South America, and Africa. Long ago, people named it after a star group called Capricorn.
Arabian Desert\n\nThe Arabian Desert is a very hot and sandy place in Asia. It covers most of the Arabian Peninsula. The sand is dry and the sun is very bright. Some animals live there, like gazelles, oryx, sand cats, and spiny-tailed lizards. But in the middle of the desert, called the Rub' al Khali, almost no animals live because it is too dry.
Democracy\n\nDemocracy is a way for people to choose their leaders. In a democracy, people vote to pick who makes the rules. This is different from a dictatorship, where one person has all the power. In many countries, people vote for a party, and the party with the most votes picks the leaders. Not everyone can vote. You have to be a citizen and old enough. Some places make voting a rule, and you have to pay a fine if you do not vote. Long ago, the Greeks started democracy in Athens. All citizens would meet and vote on laws. Today, most countries use representative democracy, where people choose leaders to make laws for them.
Iraq\n\nIraq is a country in Asia. It is between two big rivers called the Euphrates and the Tigris. Long ago, people there learned how to write. The capital city is Baghdad. Most people in Iraq are Muslims. Iraq has a lot of oil, which is a black liquid that can be used for fuel. The weather is very hot and dry. There is a place called Kurdistan inside Iraq where people have their own leaders and army.
Almond\n\nAn almond is a small nut that grows on a tree. The tree can be as tall as a house. It has green twigs that turn gray when they get older. The leaves are long, and the flowers are white or light pink with five petals. The almond nut is inside a hard shell. People take the shell off to eat the nut. Almonds come from places like Iran and other warm countries.
Utopia\n\nUtopia is a made-up name for a perfect place where everything is good and people are happy. A long time ago, a man named Thomas More wrote a book about an island that was a perfect place. The word utopia means 'no place' because it is not real. Some people try to make perfect places, but it is very hard. Heaven is like a utopia for some people.
Tutsan\n\nTutsan is a bushy plant that grows in Europe and Asia. It has pretty golden yellow flowers. After the flowers, it makes red berries that turn black when they are ready to eat. The leaves and flowers come out in the spring and fall off in the fall. People use Tutsan as a medicine to help them feel better.
Brown algae\n\nBrown algae are plants that live in the ocean. They are big and have a brown color. Many brown algae grow on rocks at the seashore. Some brown algae, like giant kelp, grow very tall and make underwater forests. Fish and other sea animals live in these forests. People also eat some brown algae. The Sargasso Sea has brown algae that float on top of the water.
West Africa\n\nWest Africa is a part of Africa that is on the west side. It has many countries like Nigeria, Ghana, and Senegal. The weather is often hot and rainy. People there grow food like rice, yams, and cocoa. Some animals that live there are elephants, lions, and monkeys. Many people speak different languages and live in villages or big cities.
Indigenous peoples\n\nIndigenous people are the first people who lived in a place long before other people came. They are also called Native people or First Nations. Long ago, new people came and took their land and things. This was not fair. Indigenous people had to work hard to keep their land and be treated well. Today, many people work to make sure indigenous people are treated fairly and with respect.
Whisker\n\nA whisker is a long, thick hair that grows near the mouth of some animals like cats and mice. Animals use whiskers to feel things around them. Some animals also have whiskers above their eyes and on the backs of their legs. You should never cut a whisker because it helps the animal know where it is.
Ice hockey\n\nIce hockey is a sport played on ice. Two teams try to score by hitting a small black puck into a net. Players wear ice skates and carry sticks to push the puck. Each team has six players on the ice at once: three forwards, two defenders, and a goalie. The goalie stops the puck from going into the net. When someone breaks a rule, they sit in a penalty box for a few minutes. Ice hockey is very popular in Canada, Russia, Sweden, and the United States. The best players play in the NHL, which has 32 teams. The game has three parts called periods, each 20 minutes long. A referee drops the puck to start play. Ice hockey started in Canada a long time ago.
Bering Strait\n\nThe Bering Strait is a narrow strip of water between Russia and Alaska. It is like a door between two big lands. The water is not very deep, only about as deep as a tall tree. There are two small islands in the middle called the Diomede Islands. Some people have thought about building a bridge or a tunnel across the strait so cars and trains could go from one side to the other. But no one has built it yet because the place is very far away and not many people live there.
Refugee\n\nA refugee is a person who has to leave their home country. This can happen because of war, fighting, or because they are scared. They go to another country to be safe. Sometimes they ask for help to stay in the new country. Many people help refugees find a safe place to live.
Moon\n\nThe Moon is a big round rock in the sky. It goes around the Earth. You can see it at night, and sometimes during the day. The Moon is much smaller than Earth. It has no air or water. The sky on the Moon is always black, even when the Sun is shining. There are many round holes called craters on the Moon. They were made by space rocks hitting it. The Moon does not make its own light. It shines because the Sun lights it up. Sometimes we see the whole Moon, and sometimes only a little part. This is called the phases of the Moon. It takes about a month for the Moon to go through all its phases. People have walked on the Moon. The first person was Neil Armstrong in 1969. Their footprints are still there because there is no wind or rain to wash them away.
Enki\n\nEnki is a god from very old stories. People long ago said he was the god of water and knowing things. They thought he made two big rivers. Enki was also shown as a man pouring water. Some people thought he was a star in the sky. He is part of a picture in the sky called Aquarius.
Polynesia\n\nPolynesia is a big group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. These islands are inside a big triangle shape. The top of the triangle is Hawaii, the bottom left is New Zealand, and the bottom right is Easter Island. All the islands inside this triangle are called Polynesia. The water around them is very blue and warm. People live on many of these islands and have their own special ways of dancing, singing, and making boats.
Rapids\n\nRapids are parts of a river where the water moves very fast. They happen when water flows over rocks in the river. The water splashes and looks white, so people also call it whitewater. Some people ride boats on rapids for fun.
Alligator\n\nAn alligator is a big animal that lives in water and on land. It has a long body, a flat head, a round nose, short legs, and a strong tail. Its skin is tough and dark gray, black, or dark green. The belly is white or light brown. Alligators live in swamps, rivers, and lakes in the United States and China. They eat small animals and can bite hard. They can run fast for a short time. Alligators are usually scared of people and swim away. But they will fight to protect their nests. American alligators are no longer in danger, but Chinese alligators are very rare.
Moa\n\nThe moa was a very big bird that could not fly. It had no wings at all. Moas only lived in New Zealand, a country far away. They ate plants like leaves and grass. Some moas were as tall as a house. People called the Maori came to New Zealand and hunted moas for food. After many years, all the moas died. Now there are no moas left in the world.
Cardamom\n\nCardamom is a spice made from the seeds of a plant that is like ginger. The seeds grow inside a small pod that is shaped like a triangle. Some pods are light green, and some are dark brown. Cardamom has a strong taste and a nice smell. People use it to add flavor to food and drinks like tea and coffee. It is also used in baking and in some medicines. A little bit of cardamom is enough to make food taste special.
Ground squirrel\n\nA ground squirrel is a small animal that lives on and in the ground. It is a kind of squirrel that digs holes in the dirt to make a home. Most ground squirrels live in the mountains. They sleep all winter long. They like to be with other ground squirrels and whistle to each other when danger is near. They can stand up on their back legs to look around for animals that might hurt them. They have short tails and are bigger than other squirrels.
Sesame\n\nSesame is a plant that grows flowers. It can grow as tall as a grown-up person. The plant makes tiny seeds that people use on bread and in cooking. The seeds are very small and can be white or black. They taste a little bit like nuts.
Bank\n\nA bank is a place where people can keep their money safe. You can put money in a bank and take it out later when you need it. Banks also let people borrow money to buy things like a house. The people who work at a bank are called bank employees. Banks use the money people save to help other people. The word "bank" comes from an old word that means "a bench" because long ago people did business on a bench. The oldest bank in the world is in Italy and started a very long time ago.
Eared seal\n\nAn eared seal is a kind of sea animal with small ears on the sides of its head. It has flippers to swim in the ocean and can walk on land better than other seals. Eared seals live in groups on beaches and rocky shores. They eat fish and squid. A baby eared seal is called a pup.
Iroquois\n\nThe Iroquois are a group of Native American tribes. They also call themselves Haudenosaunee, which means "People of the Longhouse." Long ago, five tribes came together to stop fighting and live in peace. These tribes were the Mohawk, Oneida, Onondaga, Cayuga, and Seneca. Later, the Tuscarora tribe joined, so they became known as the Six Nations. The Iroquois lived in what is now New York State. They built longhouses made of wood and bark, where many families lived together. The Iroquois grew corn, beans, and squash, which they called the three sisters. They also hunted deer and fished in rivers. Women had important jobs and could own property. Today, many Iroquois still live in New York and Canada.
Backgammon\n\nBackgammon is a game for two people. Each player has pieces that move around a board. You roll two dice to see how far your pieces can go. The first player to get all their pieces off the board wins. The game takes about 15 to 30 minutes. People have played games like backgammon for a very long time, even thousands of years ago.
Spreadsheet\n\nA spreadsheet is a computer program that looks like a big sheet of paper with many little boxes called cells. The cells are in rows and columns. You can put words or numbers in the cells. The best part is that the computer can do math for you, like adding up numbers on a bill. You can also make pictures like graphs and pie-charts from the numbers. Many people use spreadsheets at work. Microsoft Excel and Google Sheets are two popular spreadsheet programs.
Namibia\n\nNamibia is a country in Africa, near the bottom of the map. It sits next to the Atlantic Ocean. The country is very dry and has a big desert called the Namib Desert. Many animals live there, like lions and elephants. People in Namibia speak many languages, but English is the main one. The capital city is Windhoek. Namibia used to be ruled by other countries, but now it is its own country. Children go to school for free from age 6 to 16. The most popular sport is football. Tourists visit to see the desert and the animals.
Sustainable development\n\nSustainable development means making things better without hurting the world for later. It is about building homes, schools, and jobs while taking care of nature. People need food, water, safe houses, and clean air. If we use too much now, there might not be enough for kids who grow up later. So we try to be careful with what we use and keep the earth healthy.
Plow\n\nA plow is a tool that helps people work on farms. It is pushed or pulled across the ground. Long ago, people or animals pulled the plow. Today, a big machine called a tractor pulls it. The plow lifts and turns the dirt. This makes two lines of dirt behind it. Turning the dirt buries weeds and makes the soil soft. Crops grow better in dirt that has been plowed.
Military aircraft\n\nA military aircraft is a flying machine used by soldiers. It can be big or small. Some military aircraft fight in the sky, and some carry people or things to faraway places. They are very fast and strong.
Central nervous system\n\nThe central nervous system is the part of your body that controls everything you do. It has two main parts: the brain and the spinal cord. The brain is inside your head, and the spinal cord is a long bundle of nerves that runs down your back. Together, they help you think, move, feel, and learn. Hard bones protect the brain and spinal cord so they stay safe.
Belly dance\n\nBelly dance is a kind of dance that women mostly do. It started in Egypt, a country far away. The dancer moves her hips and body in circles. She wears clothes that let her belly show. The music is from the Middle East. Many girls and boys learn belly dance when they are young. People all over the world learn it in dance schools. Some people do not like belly dance because it shows skin. In some places, it was not allowed. But many people still love to watch and do it.
Fire ant\n\nFire ants are small ants that can sting you. Their sting hurts a lot. They are also called ginger ants. Fire ants first came from South America. A long time ago, they got on a ship and went to the United States by accident. Now they live in many warm places in the US. Fire ants build big dirt mounds on the ground. They are very mean and will bite you if you get too close. When they bite, they use a poison that is not like other ants. Fire ants can hurt people and animals. They also chew on wires and can break things. Many people go to the doctor each year because of fire ant bites. Some people are very allergic and can get very sick. It is hard to get rid of fire ants because they have many queens and make new homes fast.
Meteor\n\nA meteor is a bright light in the night sky, like a shooting star. It happens when a space rock falls to Earth and gets very hot. Most meteors are small and break apart. If a rock hits the ground, it is called a meteorite. A big meteorite can make a hole in the ground called a crater. Some meteorites are made of stone, some are made of iron, and some have both. Meteorites are very old, almost as old as the Sun and planets. They help us learn about space.
Barge\n\nA barge is a flat boat that carries heavy things from one place to another. It looks like a long box floating on water. Barges move very slowly but can carry really big loads, like coal or wood. Some barges are narrow to fit through small locks on canals. The people who move barges are called lightermen.
Internet\n\nThe Internet is a big way for computers all over the world to talk to each other. It connects homes, schools, and offices. People use it to send messages, look at websites, and play games. The World Wide Web is a part of the Internet where you can see pictures and words. You need to pay a company to use the Internet at home. Some places block parts of the Internet because they think it is bad. The Internet can be fun, but you have to be careful not to share secret information.
Slow loris\n\nA slow loris is a small animal that lives in trees in Southeast Asia. It comes out at night to look for food. Slow lorises eat fruit, tree sap, nectar, and sometimes bugs or small animals. They have big round eyes that help them see in the dark. They move very slowly and carefully through the trees. A slow loris has a special smell that it uses to talk to other slow lorises.
Kyoto\n\nKyoto is a city in Japan. Long ago, it was the capital of Japan for many years. There are mountains around the city on the east, north, and west sides. Kyoto has many old temples and shrines with beautiful Japanese buildings. Some of these buildings are very special and protected by the world. Many people from all over the world visit Kyoto. In spring, people come to see the pretty cherry blossoms. In autumn, they come to see the leaves change color. Kyoto is also famous for its festivals in summer and autumn. The food in Kyoto often uses vegetables. Even the McDonald's signs in Kyoto are brown to keep the city looking traditional.
Invention\n\nAn invention is a new thing that someone makes. When you make something that nobody has made before, you invent it. Computers and cars are inventions. People who make inventions are called inventors. Sometimes an invention is a new idea or a new story. Inventions help make life easier. For example, if you need something, you might invent it to help you.
Italy\n\nItaly is a country in Europe. Its flag is green, white, and red. The capital city is Rome, which is very old and famous. Italy looks like a boot sticking into the sea. It has mountains called the Alps and the Apennines. There are also big lakes and many islands, like Sicily and Sardinia. People in Italy are called Italians. They speak Italian. Italian food is famous all over the world. People love to eat pizza, pasta, and ice cream called gelato. Many tourists visit Italy to see old buildings and eat yummy food.
Saint\n\nA saint is a very good and holy person. Many people believe saints live close to God in heaven. Different religions have saints. In Christianity, all people who love God can be called saints. Some saints are extra special because they did very kind things or helped others. People sometimes pray to saints to ask for help. A saint can be a helper for a certain job or sickness. It takes a long time for the church to say someone is a saint. They look at the person's life and miracles. After a person becomes a saint, their body is kept as a holy thing.
Trade union\n\nA trade union is a group of workers who come together to ask for better pay and better work. The people who run companies often want to pay workers as little as they can. So workers join a union to help each other. If the company does not listen, the workers may stop working. This is called a strike. Most of the time, the company agrees before a strike happens. Long ago, unions were not allowed. Workers who joined a union could go to jail. Later, the law changed and unions became okay. Today, many workers in different jobs are in unions.
World economy\n\nThe world economy is about all the money and trading that happens everywhere on Earth. It includes everything people buy and sell, like food, toys, and clothes. When one country sends things to another country, that is part of the world economy. The world economy is like a big circle where money and things move around the whole planet.
Dam\n\nA dam is a big wall that stops water from flowing. It makes a lake behind it. Some water can go over the top of the dam. People build dams to keep rivers from flooding, to make electricity, or to save water for farms and drinking. Some dams have special steps for fish to swim over. The tallest dam is very, very tall, as high as a big hill.
Sight\n\nSight is how you see things with your eyes. Light goes into your eyes, and your eyes send a message to your brain. Your brain figures out what you are looking at, like a tree or a house. It also knows how far away things are, so you can catch a ball. Your brain works very fast to help you see the world.
University of Cambridge\n\nThe University of Cambridge is a big school in Cambridge, England. It is one of the oldest and best schools in the world. Many smart people study and work there. The school started a long time ago, in 1209, when some students left another school because they were not happy. Cambridge has many small schools inside it called colleges. Students live and learn in these colleges. There are 31 colleges. The first one was built in 1284. For a long time, only boys could go to Cambridge. Now girls can go too. Many famous people went to Cambridge, like scientists, writers, and even kings and queens. People at Cambridge have found out many new things about science. The school has a special way of teaching where students talk with a teacher in a small group. This helps them learn a lot.
Firefighting\n\nFirefighting is the job of putting out fires that are not wanted. A firefighter is a person who does this job. Fires can happen in houses, cars, or forests. Firefighters use water to spray on fires. Water makes the fire cooler and takes away the air the fire needs to burn. Firefighters wear special masks to breathe clean air because smoke can be bad for them. They work to keep people and places safe.
Upper class\n\nUpper class is a word for the richest people in a place. These people have a lot of money and power. They might own big houses, boats, or lots of land. Some are born into rich families, and others make their own money. They can buy fancy things like big cars and beautiful clothes.
Werewolf\n\nA werewolf is a make-believe creature that is part human and part wolf. When there is a full moon, a werewolf can change from looking like a person into looking like a wolf. In wolf form, it has pointy ears, sharp teeth, and a long tail. Most people are scared of werewolves because they look scary. A werewolf can be hurt by a silver bullet, but not by a cross or holy water. When a werewolf dies, it turns back into a human. Some stories say a person becomes a werewolf if a werewolf bites them. Other stories say sleeping outside under a full moon can turn someone into a werewolf.
Light year\n\nA light year is how far light can go in one whole year. Light moves very, very fast. It can go around the Earth many times in just one second. A light year is not a measure of time. It is a measure of distance. Scientists use light years to talk about how far away stars and other things in space are. Some stars are so far away that their light takes many years to reach us. When we look at a star that is 100 light years away, we see it as it looked 100 years ago.
Wave\n\nA wave is a moving wiggle that travels from one place to another. Waves carry energy, like the energy that makes light and sound. Some waves need something to travel through, like air or water. Sound is a wave that travels through air. Ocean waves are waves that move across the water. Other waves, like light, can travel through empty space. Waves help us see and hear things far away.
Machete\n\nA machete is a big knife with a long blade. People use it in jungles to cut through plants and vines. It can open coconuts and cut down small trees. Some machetes have a saw on the back for cutting wood. It is bigger than most knives and can be used for many jobs.
Yoruba religion\n\nYoruba religion is a way of believing from West Africa, mostly from a country called Nigeria. It is the religion of the Yoruba people. In this religion, people think that things in nature, like trees, rivers, stones, and iron, have a spirit inside them. This religion has spread to other places like Cuba and the United States. In Cuba, it is sometimes called 'regla d'ocha,' which means 'the way of the spirits.' Some people who follow this religion also go to a Catholic church.
Seabed\n\nThe seabed is the bottom of the ocean, way down deep under the water. It is like the ground at the bottom of the sea. The seabed is dark and cold because sunlight cannot reach it. Some parts are flat and sandy, and other parts have big mountains and deep valleys. Submarines and divers have gone down to look at the seabed. Many fish and other sea animals live near the seabed.
Dome\n\nA dome is a round roof that looks like the top half of a ball. Some buildings have a dome on top, like temples and palaces. When you talk under a dome, your voice sounds louder. Big sports places with a roof are also called domes.
Landslide\n\nA landslide is when dirt, rocks, or mud slide down a hill or mountain. This happens because of gravity, which pulls things down. Sometimes rain or shaking makes the ground soft and slippery, and then the ground moves very fast. A landslide can happen suddenly and cover roads or houses. Big landslides can even happen on volcanoes.
Hajj\n\nHajj is a special trip that many Muslim people take to a city called Mecca. They go there because it is a very holy place. Muslims believe they should go on this trip at least once in their life if they are healthy and have enough money. During Hajj, people wear simple white clothes and walk around a big black cube-shaped building called the Ka'aba. They also walk between two hills, drink water from a special well, and throw stones at three pillars. After that, they have a big celebration called Eid al-Adha. Many people go to Mecca at the same time, so it is a very big gathering.
Seed\n\nA seed is a tiny part of a plant that can grow into a new plant. Seeds are often hard and very small, but some are big like a coconut. Inside a seed is a baby plant and food for it to eat. Seeds sleep for a while until they get water, air, and warmth. Then they wake up and start to grow into a little plant called a seedling. The seedling uses the food inside the seed until it can make its own food from sunlight. Many seeds are good food for animals and people, like rice, wheat, and corn. Seeds are often found inside fruits.
Bowling\n\nBowling is a game where you roll a heavy ball down a long, smooth floor. The ball has three holes for your fingers and thumb. At the end of the floor are ten big wooden pins standing up. You try to knock all the pins down with the ball. If you knock them all down on your first try, it is called a strike. If you knock them down on your second try, it is called a spare. You get points for each pin you knock down. The highest score you can get is 300. People take turns rolling the ball, and the person with the most points wins. Some bowling alleys have smaller pins called duck pins or candle pins.
Rock climbing\n\nRock climbing is a sport where you use your hands and feet to climb up a big rock or a special wall. It is hard because you need strong arms and legs. Rock climbers wear a special belt called a harness and use long ropes to stay safe. They also use metal clips called carabiners to hold the rope. Some people climb on real rocks outside, and other people climb on fake rocks inside a building.
Pelican\n\nA pelican is a big bird that lives near water. It has a very long beak with a big pouch underneath, like a bag. The pelican uses its pouch to scoop up fish from the water. It tips its head to let the water out, then swallows the fish. Pelicans are usually white or brown. Their beaks and faces can be bright colors when it is time to have babies. Pelicans live in many warm places around the world, but not in very cold places or in the middle of the ocean.
Snow leopard\n\nA snow leopard is a big cat that lives in the cold mountains of central Asia. It has thick gray and white fur with dark spots, and a long tail that helps it balance on rocks. Its big furry feet help it walk on snow without sinking. Snow leopards are very good at hiding and like to hunt at dawn and dusk. They eat animals like mountain sheep and goats. They can live on one sheep for two weeks. Snow leopards live alone and have 2 or 3 babies at a time. People sometimes hunt them for their fur, but many countries protect them.
Artificial intelligence\n\nArtificial intelligence is a computer program or a machine that can learn and think like a person. It can understand things around it, learn from them, and use what it learned to do jobs. AI is used in many ways, like helping phones understand your voice, finding faces in pictures, driving cars by themselves, and playing games like chess. In 1997, a computer named Deep Blue beat the best chess player in the world. In 2011, a computer named Watson won a game show called Jeopardy! In 2016, a computer named AlphaGo beat the best Go player. AI can also help doctors find sicknesses and help people translate languages. Someday, researchers hope to make AI that can think and feel like a person.
Spaceflight\n\nSpaceflight is when a machine made by people flies into outer space. Some spaceflights have people inside, and some do not. The machine that goes into space is called a spacecraft. A big rocket pushes the spacecraft up into the sky. Once in space, the spacecraft can go around Earth or fly to other planets. People on Earth watch the spacecraft and tell it what to do. Some spacecraft come back to Earth with a parachute to land softly. Spaceflight helps us learn about space and send messages around the world.
Weed\n\nA weed is a plant that grows where people do not want it. Some weeds are small and grow in gardens or on the grass. They can be hard to stop once they start growing. People often pull them out because they take space from flowers or food plants. Some weeds are just wild plants that no one planted.
South Asia\n\nSouth Asia is a big part of the world. It is the southern part of Asia. There are eight countries in South Asia. Many people there are farmers. They grow rice, tea, peanuts, and other food. Some people raise cows and sheep. Cows give milk and help carry things. The weather is hot and rainy in some parts. Strong winds called monsoons bring a lot of rain. Sometimes big storms called hurricanes come and break things. The land is very good for growing food.
Cable television\n\nCable television is a way to watch TV shows without using an antenna on the roof. The TV shows come through a special wire that goes into the TV. People have to pay money each month to get cable TV. With cable TV, you can watch many different channels with lots of shows. Some channels are regular TV stations, and others are made just for cable. In many places, only one or two companies bring cable TV to your house.
House\n\nA house is a building where people live. It has walls to keep out wind and cold, and a roof to keep off rain and sun. Houses have windows to let in light and doors to go in and out. A house can be big or small. Some houses are made of wood, brick, or stone. Inside a house there are rooms like a kitchen for cooking, a bedroom for sleeping, and a bathroom for washing. A house is called a home when people live there for a long time.
Seoul\n\nSeoul is the biggest city in South Korea and its capital. It is a very big city with 10 million people living there. Seoul is in the middle of Korea, and a big river called the Han River flows through it. Many important things happen in Seoul, like the 1988 Olympic Games. There are tall buildings like the 63 building and N Seoul Tower, where you can see the whole city. Seoul also has old castles like Gyeongbokgung and a big door called Sungnyemun. People in Seoul love sports, and there are soccer and baseball teams that play in big stadiums.
Knife\n\nA knife is a tool with a sharp metal part that cuts things. People use knives in the kitchen to cut food like bread and vegetables. Hunters and campers also carry knives. Some knives are very old, even older than your grandparents. Knives can be small or big. You must be careful with a knife because it is sharp. In some places, it is not allowed to carry a knife outside.
Scientific law\n\nA scientific law is a rule that tells how something in nature always works. It comes from doing many tests and watching what happens over and over. A law says what happens, but not why it happens. For example, a law can tell how a ball rolls or how planets move. Scientists use laws to guess what will happen next and to make new things. Laws can change if new facts are found.
Green algae\n\nGreen algae are tiny green plants that live in water. You can find them in the ocean, in lakes, and in ponds. Some green algae are so small you need a microscope to see them. They can be one single cell or many cells stuck together like a long string. Green algae are special because they helped make the first plants that grow on land. There are many kinds of green algae, and they come in different shapes and sizes.
Surrealism\n\nSurrealism is a kind of art and writing that started a long time ago. Artists who made surrealist art painted dream-like pictures. They put strange things together, like a clock that melts or a fish with legs. This art was meant to surprise people and make them think about dreams and feelings. Some famous surrealist artists were Salvador Dali and Joan Miro.
Human rights\n\nHuman rights are special rules that say every person should be treated fairly. These rules are for everyone, no matter what color their skin is, what they believe, or where they come from. Long ago, some people started saying that everyone should be able to choose their own religion and leaders. Today, many countries make laws to protect these rights. The United Nations made a list of human rights in 1948. Some rights are: the right to live, the right to be free, and the right to be safe. When someone hurts another person and takes away their rights, that is called a human rights abuse. Some groups, like Amnesty International, work to stop these abuses.
Spin (physics)\n\nSpin is a word scientists use for something very small, like an electron. It is not really spinning like a top. But it acts a little bit like it has a north and south pole, just like a magnet. This helps scientists understand how tiny things work.
Fault (geology)\n\nA fault is a crack in the ground. The ground is made of big pieces of rock called plates. Sometimes the plates move and push against each other. When they move, the ground can shake. That shaking is called an earthquake. A fault can make a cliff or a steep hill where the crack shows on top.
Globalization\n\nGlobalization is when people and countries all over the world start to do things the same way. It means things like toys, food, and movies can travel from one country to another. People can buy things from far away places. Some people like globalization because it helps countries share ideas and make friends. Other people do not like it because they think it helps rich people more than poor people. Sometimes, people in one country lose their jobs when work moves to another country. But some people say it helps poor countries get richer and live better.
Weight loss\n\nWeight loss is when a person weighs less than before. A person can lose weight by running, swimming, or doing other activities. Eating less sugar and more vegetables, fruits, and lean meat also helps. Some people get help from doctors or take special medicine. Not getting enough sleep can make a person eat more, so sleeping well helps with weight loss. Sometimes a person loses weight without trying, which can be a sign of being sick. It is important to eat healthy foods and move your body every day.
Sinhala language\n\nSinhala is a language that people speak in Sri Lanka. Many people there use it to talk to each other. It has two ways: one for talking and one for writing. The talking way is easier to learn. Sinhala has its own special letters that look different from English letters. The words are built by adding small parts to the main word. For example, 'pusa' means kitten, and 'pusath' means kitten also. Sinhala is one of the main languages of Sri Lanka, along with Tamil.
Sewing\n\nSewing is using a needle and thread to put pieces of cloth together. You can sew by hand or with a sewing machine. People sew to make clothes, curtains, sheets, and other things for the house. Some people sew to fix a hole in a shirt or to put on a new button. Sewing can also be used to make pretty pictures on cloth, like in embroidery. When you sew, you push the needle in and out of the cloth, and the thread holds the pieces together.
Sea turtle\n\nA sea turtle is a turtle that lives in the ocean. Sea turtles can be found in all the big oceans of the world except the very cold Arctic Ocean. Some sea turtles swim from one ocean to another. Sea turtles have been on Earth for a very long time, even longer than snakes or crocodiles. There are seven kinds of sea turtles. The biggest one is called the leatherback sea turtle. It can be as long as a tall grown-up and weigh as much as a small car. Most other sea turtles are smaller, about as long as a big dog. One kind, the flatback turtle, only lives near the coast of Australia.
Grenada\n\nGrenada is a small island country in the warm Caribbean Sea. Its capital city is St. George's. Long ago, people from France and then the United Kingdom lived there. In 1974, Grenada became its own country. It is called the Spice Island because it grows a spice called nutmeg. A big storm named Ivan hurt the island in 2004. The king of the United Kingdom, Charles III, is also the king of Grenada. The people of Grenada vote for some of their leaders.
Jupiter\n\nJupiter is the biggest planet in our Solar System. It is the fifth planet from the Sun. Jupiter is made mostly of gas, so it is called a gas giant. It is so big that more than 1,300 Earths could fit inside it. Jupiter has a big red spot on its surface. That spot is a giant storm that is bigger than Earth. The storm has been going for hundreds of years. Jupiter has many bands of clouds that go around the planet. The clouds are made of ammonia. Jupiter spins very fast, once every 10 hours. That makes it look a little squished at the top and bottom. Jupiter has a thin ring around it, but it is hard to see. It also has a very strong magnetic field that is 10 times stronger than Earth's. Jupiter has many moons that go around it. The planet gives off more heat than it gets from the Sun. Jupiter was named after the king of the Roman gods.
Chengdu\n\nChengdu is a big city in China. It is the fifth largest city in the country. Chengdu is the capital of Sichuan province. The city sits on a flat plain. Chengdu is famous for giant pandas. There is a special place where people take care of baby pandas. The city is also known for its yummy food. People there like to eat hot pot and spicy food with chili peppers. They also love to drink tea in teahouses. A group called UNESCO said Chengdu has very good food.
Borneo\n\nBorneo is a very big island. It is the third biggest island in the whole world. Three different countries share this island: Indonesia, Malaysia, and a small country called Brunei. Borneo has some of the oldest rainforests on Earth. Many animals live there, like orangutans, monkeys, elephants, snakes, and parrots. Some people cut down trees in the rainforest, which is not good for the animals. Many people live on Borneo too.
Jesus\n\nJesus was a man who lived a long time ago. He was a teacher and a healer. Many people follow his words today. Jesus was born in a small town called Bethlehem. His mother was Mary. When he was born, he was placed in a box where animals eat. Shepherds and wise men came to see him. Jesus grew up and taught people to love God and love each other. He told stories to help people understand. He did amazing things like giving food to hungry people and making sick people well. Some leaders did not like what Jesus taught. They had him put on a cross to die. But his friends said he came back to life after three days. People who follow Jesus are called Christians. They celebrate his birthday on Christmas.
Civilization\n\nA civilization is a big group of people who live together in an organized way. They have rules called laws, a way to get food, and people who lead them. Most civilizations have cities, writing, and teach their children what they need to know. Long ago, the Romans had a big civilization with many people. They spoke Latin and built strong roads and buildings. Other old civilizations are the Incas and Aztecs, who had big cities and grew lots of food. Sometimes a civilization ends when another group takes over, or when people go back to a simpler way of life.
Palace of Versailles\n\nThe Palace of Versailles is a very big and fancy castle in France. A long time ago, a king named Louis XIV lived there with his family. The castle has many beautiful rooms with gold and shiny mirrors. There is also a huge garden with pretty flowers and fountains. Many people visit Versailles to see how kings and queens used to live.
Air conditioner\n\nAn air conditioner is a machine that makes a room cooler. It takes warm air inside and blows out cool air instead. Many homes and cars have air conditioners. They help people feel comfortable when it is very hot outside. The machine uses a special liquid that gets cold and takes the heat away. Some air conditioners are big and sit on the ground, and some are small and fit in a window. They can also help people who have trouble breathing in hot weather. But if an air conditioner is not cleaned, it can make people sick. So it is important to keep it clean.
Set\n\nA set is an idea from math. Think of a set like a bag. You can put things in the bag, and those things are called members. A set cannot have the same thing more than once. The order of things in the bag does not matter. A set can be empty, like an empty bag. That is called the empty set. You can compare two sets. If they have the same things, they are the same set. You can also count how many things are in a set. That is called the size of the set. Some sets are very big and go on forever. Those are called infinite sets. You can also take parts of a set. A part of a set is called a subset. You can combine sets in different ways. The intersection is the things that are in both sets. The union is all the things from both sets together. The complement is the things not in a set. People draw sets with circles called Venn diagrams.
Strait\n\nA strait is a narrow path of water between two pieces of land. It connects two big bodies of water, like two seas. Big boats use straits to travel from one sea to another. Some straits are very important for ships. People have fought wars to control them. A strait is not a river because the water does not flow just one way.
Naval mine\n\nA naval mine is a bomb that sits in the water. It waits for a ship or a submarine to touch it, and then it blows up. People put mines in the water to stop enemy ships from going where they want. Some mines are cheap, and some are very fancy and cost a lot of money. Countries have to tell other people when they put mines in the water, so that boats can stay away.
Watercolour\n\nWatercolour is a kind of painting that uses special colors mixed with water. You dip a brush in water and then in the color, and then you paint on paper. The colors spread and mix in pretty ways. When the water dries, the color stays on the paper. People have been making watercolour paintings for a very long time, first in China and then in Japan.
Pen\n\nA pen is a tool for writing or drawing. It puts ink on paper. Long ago, people made pens from reeds that grew by the Nile River. They also made pens from bird feathers, like goose feathers. You had to dip those pens in ink every few words. Today, some pens hold ink inside so you can write many pages without dipping. A ballpoint pen has a tiny ball that rolls the ink onto the paper. There are also pens that work on computer screens. Even though computers are common, writing with a pen can show someone you care.
Water buffalo\n\nA water buffalo is a big animal that looks like a cow. It lives in Asia, South America, and Southern Europe. People keep water buffaloes for their milk, which is very creamy and makes cheese like mozzarella. They also help people by pulling plows and carrying things. Water buffaloes have big horns and like to eat grass near water. A baby water buffalo is called a calf. Wild water buffaloes are rare and live only in a few safe places in India, Nepal, Bhutan, and Thailand.
Freedom of religion\n\nFreedom of religion means you can choose what you believe about God or not believe at all. No one can make you follow a religion you do not want. In the United States, the law says the government cannot pick one religion for everyone. You can go to a church, a temple, or stay home, and that is okay. People from different religions should be nice to each other.
Central America\n\nCentral America is a part of the world that connects North America and South America. It is a long, thin strip of land with many countries. The countries in Central America are Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama. Most people there speak Spanish, but in Belize they speak English. Central America has tall mountains, valleys, and volcanoes. Sometimes the ground shakes, and sometimes volcanoes shoot out hot ash. Many different kinds of animals and plants live there because it is warm and green.
Pollen\n\nPollen is a tiny powder made by flowers. It helps flowers make seeds so new flowers can grow. The powder is very light and can float in the wind. Sometimes bees and other bugs carry pollen from one flower to another. When a bee lands on a flower to drink sweet juice called nectar, pollen sticks to its body. Then the bee flies to another flower, and the pollen rubs off. That is how flowers get the pollen they need. Some flowers even pop open when you touch them and throw their pollen out.
Narcissus (genus)\n\nA narcissus is a flower that grows from a bulb in the ground. It is also called a daffodil. The flower has bright petals and a darker middle part that looks like a trumpet. Most narcissus flowers are yellow, but some are white or peach. The leaves are long and thin and a little bit gray. In winter, the flower part dies, but the bulb stays safe under the soil until spring.
Conservatism\n\nConservatism is a way of thinking about how people should live together. People who like conservatism want to keep old ways of doing things. They think traditions are important. Some people want things to stay the same as they are now. Other people want to go back to how things were a long time ago. In different countries, conservatives have different ideas. In the United States, many conservatives are in the Republican Party. They do not want the government to be too big. They trust business people to decide how much things cost. In England, conservatives want rich and poor people to help each other. They also like democracy and some help from the government for people who need it.
Dingo\n\nA dingo is a wild dog from Australia. It has yellow-ginger fur, but can also be tan, black, white, or sandy. Dingos are about as long as a big dog and weigh as much as a heavy backpack. They live in small groups called packs, with a mom and dad as the leaders. Baby dingos are called cubs. Dingos do not bark like pet dogs, but they howl. They eat meat like kangaroos, rabbits, and lizards. Some people keep dingos as pets, but farmers do not like them because they eat farm animals. Dingos can be dangerous and have hurt people.
Shyness\n\nShyness is a feeling you get when you are around other people and feel a little scared or not sure what to do. It can happen when you are in a new place or doing something new. You might feel like you want to hide or be very quiet. This feeling is the opposite of feeling brave and sure of yourself. Sometimes shyness makes you worry that others will laugh at you or not like you. But many people feel shy sometimes, and that is okay.
Hathor\n\nHathor was an Egyptian goddess. She was a cow goddess and people thought she was the daughter of Ra. She was the goddess of love, beauty, dancing, and music. In pictures, she had a cow head with two horns. She wore a special heavy necklace called a menat. Sometimes she looked like a cow or a lion. Her temple is in Dendera, Egypt. People went there to pray for good wealth. Hathor could make people feel happy and joyful. If she was far away, people felt sad.
Gulf of Alaska\n\nThe Gulf of Alaska is a big part of the ocean next to Alaska. It touches the coast of Alaska, with forests, mountains, and big icy rivers called glaciers. Some glaciers go all the way to the water. There are also big bays like Cook Inlet and Prince William Sound. One bay, Lituya Bay, had the biggest wave ever.
England\n\nEngland is a country on the island of Great Britain. It is part of the United Kingdom. Many people live there, more than 57 million. The biggest city is London, and it is also the capital. Other big cities are Birmingham, Liverpool, Manchester, and Leeds. The English flag is white with a red cross. That cross is for Saint George. A red rose and three lions are also symbols of England. England has a long history with kings and queens. Long ago, people built Stonehenge with big stones. The River Thames flows through London. The Channel Tunnel goes under the sea to France.
Shanghai\n\nShanghai is the biggest city in China. It is very big and has many people. The name Shanghai means "on the sea" because it used to be next to the ocean. Long ago, Shanghai was a small fishing village. People used bamboo traps to catch fish and crabs. Today, Shanghai has tall towers, parks, and a Disneyland. Many people visit Shanghai to see the big buildings and the river.
Magnetism\n\nMagnetism is a force that can pull or push things. Some things, like a fridge magnet, have a special power to pull metal objects that have iron in them. This is called a magnet. Magnets have two ends, called poles. One end is north, and the other is south. If you put two north poles together, they push away. If you put a north pole near a south pole, they pull together and stick. Magnets have an invisible space around them called a magnetic field. Things inside this field get pulled to the magnet. You can make a magnet by rubbing a piece of iron with another magnet. Some magnets only work when electricity runs through them. These are called electromagnets. They are used in computers, TVs, radios, and doorbells. The Earth itself is a big magnet. It has a North Magnetic Pole and a South Magnetic Pole. A compass uses the Earth's magnetism to show which way is north.
Macadamia nut\n\nA macadamia nut is a food that comes from a tree. The tree first grew in Australia. It stays green all year and has small white flowers. The nut has a hard shell around it. Inside, the soft part is creamy white or a little yellow. Many people like the taste. People eat macadamia nuts after cooking them. They also put them in cookies, cakes, and candies. But macadamia nuts are bad for dogs. If a dog eats one, it can get sick.
Camel\n\nA camel is a big animal that lives in the desert where it is very hot and dry. Camels have one or two humps on their back. The hump stores fat that the camel can use for energy when there is no food or water. Camels have long legs and big feet that help them walk on soft sand. They have thick fur to keep them cool in the day and warm at night. Their long eyelashes and bushy eyebrows keep sand out of their eyes. Camels can go a long time without drinking water. People ride camels and use them to carry heavy things. Baby camels are called calves and can run just a few hours after they are born.
Drinking water\n\nDrinking water is water that is safe to drink. Water from rivers, lakes, or underground can have tiny germs that make you sick. To make it safe, people clean the water by filtering it through sand and adding a special chemical to kill the germs. People need water every day to stay healthy. In many places, water from the tap is safe to drink. Water is also used for washing, flushing toilets, and watering plants.
Hybrid\n\nA hybrid is something that comes from two different kinds of parents. For example, a mule is a hybrid animal. Its mother is a horse and its father is a donkey. Many garden flowers and food plants are also hybrids. Some hybrids can have babies, but others cannot.
Spacecraft\n\nA spacecraft is a machine that can fly into space. It can carry people or things to other planets or to the moon. Most spacecraft use rockets that shoot hot gas to push them up. Spacecraft are very expensive to build and launch. Some spacecraft have people inside, and those people are called astronauts. Other spacecraft are satellites that go around the Earth. Satellites help us watch TV, check the weather, and take pictures of our planet.
Botfly\n\nA botfly is a kind of fly. The baby botflies grow inside the body of animals like cows or horses. That can hurt the animal. The fly lays eggs on the animal's skin. When the eggs hatch, the little worms go inside the animal's body. Some worms grow in the animal's flesh, and some grow in its tummy.
Optical illusion\n\nAn optical illusion is a picture that looks different from what is really there. Your eyes see the picture, but your brain gets tricked. Sometimes lines look bent when they are straight. Sometimes colors look different than they really are. Your brain tries to guess what you are seeing, and sometimes the guess is wrong. That is why you see an optical illusion. It is like a fun puzzle for your eyes and brain.
Spoon\n\nA spoon is a tool you use for eating. It helps you eat foods like soup, yogurt, and ice cream. You can also use a spoon to stir things. There are many kinds of spoons, like big ones for soup and small ones for tea. Some people collect spoons. A few musicians even play spoons like a musical instrument. People have used spoons for a very long time, starting with shells or pieces of wood.
Bhutan\n\nBhutan is a small country high up in the Himalaya mountains. It is ruled by a king. The capital city is Thimphu. About 700,000 people live there. Most people in Bhutan are Buddhist. The country was closed to visitors until 1974. Now people can visit, but only a few at a time. Bhutan is special because it is the only country in the world that does not make the air dirty. The national sport is archery, where people shoot arrows at a target. People also like to play cricket and football.
Korean language\n\nKorean is a language spoken by many people in North Korea and South Korea. More than 78 million people speak it. In South Korea, people call it "hangukmal" or "hangugeo." In North Korea, they call it "choseonmal" or "choseoneo." Koreans also call their language "urimal," which means "our language." Korean has its own special alphabet called Hangul. A long time ago, a king named Sejong the Great helped make Hangul so that more people could learn to read and write. Before Hangul, people used Chinese characters called Hanja. Today, most writing in Korea uses Hangul, but some newspapers still use Hanja.
Balkan Mountains\n\nThe Balkan Mountains are a long chain of very tall hills in Europe. They go through two countries called Serbia and Bulgaria. The mountains are so high that snow stays on top even in summer. People who live near these mountains are called Balkandjii. The highest point in the Balkan Mountains is Botev peak. It is very high, and you can see far away from the top. Some roads go over the mountains so cars can cross from one side to the other.
Greenland ice sheet\n\nThe Greenland ice sheet is a very big, thick layer of ice that covers most of the island of Greenland. It is the second biggest ice sheet in the world, after the one in Antarctica. The ice is more than two kilometers thick in many places, and it has been there for a very long time, about 110,000 years. The ice is so heavy that it pushes the ground down. Some scientists think that if the Earth gets warmer, the ice might melt and make the ocean rise, which could flood many cities near the coast. But other scientists are not sure because the weather in Greenland has not changed much.
Melting\n\nMelting is when something hard turns into something wet. Ice melts into water when it gets warm. The sun can melt ice on a cold day. When you heat a solid, it gets soft and turns into a liquid. Ice melts faster in warm water than in cold water.
Cartography\n\nCartography is making maps. Maps show where things are, like streets, rivers, or mountains. Long ago, people drew maps by hand with a pen. Now, most maps are made on a computer. Someone who makes maps is called a cartographer. Anyone can draw a simple map, but cartographers learn how to make maps that are very neat and correct. You might see maps on a phone or a computer screen.
Neuron\n\nA neuron is a tiny cell inside your body that sends messages. Your brain has billions of neurons. They talk to each other through small gaps. Some neurons tell your muscles to move. Others tell your brain what you see, hear, or feel. Neurons do not grow new ones when you are grown up, but they are very busy every day.
Americas\n\nThe Americas are big lands on the other side of the world. They are made of two big parts: North America and South America. There are also many islands near them. A long time ago, people from Europe came to the Americas on ships. They found new places and met people who already lived there. Some of those people had big cities and strong rulers. Later, many countries in the Americas became their own countries, like the United States. Today, people in the Americas speak many different languages and have many different ways of life.
Sea level\n\nSea level is how high the ocean water is. It is the average height of the sea. The sea goes up and down with the tides, so we use an average. Mountains and land are measured from sea level. Sea level can change over time. Right now, the sea is getting a little higher because the Earth is getting warmer. This can make water come onto land near the ocean.
Centipede\n\nA centipede is a small bug with many legs. It hunts at night and eats other bugs like cockroaches and flies. Some centipedes have poison, but they cannot hurt people badly. A centipede has a long body with many parts, and each part has one pair of legs. Some centipedes have only 5 legs, and some have many more. There are many kinds of centipedes all over the world.
Poison\n\nPoison is something that can make you very sick or even die if you eat it, drink it, or get it on your skin. Some poisons come from plants, like certain mushrooms. Other poisons are made by people. A little bit of poison can hurt you a lot. Sometimes, a doctor can give you a special medicine called an antidote to stop the poison from hurting you. Some animals, like snakes and bees, have poison in their bite or sting. That kind of poison is called venom. You should never eat or touch something if you do not know what it is, because it might be poison.
Manchester\n\nManchester is a big city in England. It is in the north-west part of the country. Many people live there. Manchester has two famous football teams: Manchester United and Manchester City. The city has a big airport where planes fly to many places around the world. There are also trains and trams that help people get around. Manchester has lots of old red brick buildings. Some of them used to be cotton mills where cloth was made. The city has two big universities with many students. Manchester is also known for its music. Bands like The Smiths and Joy Division came from there. In the city, there is a big park called Heaton Park where people can see animals and enjoy nature.
Time\n\nTime is how we know when things happen. It goes from the past, through now, and into the future. We can measure time by watching the sun rise and set each day. Long ago, people used the sun's shadow to tell time. Today, clocks help us know the time. A clock can show seconds, minutes, and hours. Time helps us know when to wake up, eat, and play.
Academic art\n\nAcademic art is a way of painting and making art that was popular a long time ago. Art schools made rules about what a good picture should look like. Artists tried to make their art look very real, like a true copy of something in the world. They often painted stories from old myths. This kind of art was taught at a famous school in Paris. Later, new ways of painting became popular, and academic art was not used as much.
Antarctic Circle\n\nThe Antarctic Circle is a pretend line around the bottom of the Earth. It is very, very cold there. In December, the sun shines all day and all night for a whole day. In June, it is dark all day and all night for a whole day. No one lives there all the time, but some scientists stay for a while to study the cold. Antarctica is the big land inside the circle, and it is one of the coldest places on Earth.
Oxygen\n\nOxygen is a gas you cannot see, smell, or taste. It is part of the air we breathe. About one-fifth of the air around us is oxygen. Plants make oxygen when they use sunlight to make food. People and animals need oxygen to live. When you breathe in, your body takes oxygen from the air. Oxygen helps things burn, but it does not burn by itself. It is also in water, rocks, and soil. Doctors give extra oxygen to people who have trouble breathing. Oxygen is stored in tanks for astronauts in space and divers underwater.
Kalahari Desert\n\nThe Kalahari Desert is a big sandy place in southern Africa. It covers parts of Botswana, Namibia, and South Africa. Even though it is called a desert, it gets a little rain, so some plants and animals live there. You can find grasses, acacia trees, and even wild watermelons. Animals like lions, giraffes, meerkats, and cheetahs live in the Kalahari. There are also special parks where the animals are protected. Long ago, people called Bushmen lived in the Kalahari. They moved from place to place to find food and water. They did not keep animals and carried only what they needed.
Basil\n\nBasil is a green plant that people use in cooking. It has light green, soft leaves that grow opposite each other. The plant can grow as tall as a small table. Basil smells sweet and strong, a little like licorice. People put fresh basil on pizza, in pasta, and in salads. It tastes best when you add it at the very end of cooking. Basil likes hot, sunny weather and does not like cold. You can grow basil in a pot on a sunny windowsill. If you pick the leaves often, the plant will grow more leaves. Some people also use basil seeds in drinks and desserts.
Ruby\n\nA ruby is a pretty stone that people like to wear as jewelry. It is usually red, but sometimes it can be other colors too. Rubies are made from a mix of aluminum and oxygen, and a tiny bit of another thing called chromium gives them their red color. Many people think rubies are special for the month of July.
Millet\n\nMillet is a tiny grain that people can eat. It is like a small seed. There are many kinds of millet. Millet is good for you because it has things your body needs. But it is hard for your body to break down, so some people do not like to eat it.
Rama\n\nRama is a very special person in a religion called Hinduism. He is a hero in an old story called the Ramayana. Rama was a prince who lived in a place called Ayodhya. He had a wife named Sita and a brother named Lakshmana. A bad king named Ravana took Sita away. Rama and Lakshmana went on a long trip to save her. They fought many fights and finally saved Sita. Rama is kind, brave, and good. Many people love Rama and tell his story even today.
Braslia\n\nBrasília is the capital city of Brazil. It is the city where the country's leaders work. From above, the city looks like an airplane or a butterfly. There are big roads and a large lake called Lake Parano. The city was built a long time ago, starting in 1956. Many people helped build it. Today, many people live there. There is a subway and an airport to help people travel.
Frankenstein\n\nFrankenstein is a story about a man who makes a monster. The man's name is Victor Frankenstein. He is a scientist. He puts together parts from dead bodies. Then he uses a big storm to make the monster come alive. The monster is big and scary. Victor gets very scared and runs away. The monster feels sad because no one wants to be his friend. He asks Victor to make him a wife monster. Victor says no. They chase each other all the way to a cold, icy place. Victor dies there. The monster goes away into the fog and is never seen again.
Musician\n\nA musician is a person who makes music. They can play an instrument like a guitar or a piano. Some musicians sing songs with their voice. Other musicians write new songs for people to play. Sometimes musicians get together in a group and play music for others to hear.
Whale shark\n\nA whale shark is the biggest fish in the ocean. It can be as long as a big bus and weigh as much as many cars. Whale sharks have a huge mouth that they use to eat tiny sea animals like plankton and krill. They are gray or blue with white spots and stripes, like a checkerboard. Whale sharks live in warm seas all over the world. They are gentle and not scary. People like to swim near them to see how big they are.
Witchcraft\n\nWitchcraft is when people try to use magic. A person who does witchcraft is called a witch. Witches might use plants to make medicine or to help people. Some witches use special things like candles, sticks, or a big pot called a cauldron. Long ago, people thought witches could make bad things happen. They blamed witches when someone got sick or crops did not grow. Today, some people still believe in witchcraft, and others practice a kind called Wicca that is peaceful. In different parts of the world, people have different ideas about witches.
Plant breeding\n\nPlant breeding is when people help plants grow better. For a very long time, farmers have picked the best plants to save seeds from. They choose plants that give more food or that bugs do not like. Now scientists also help by learning how plants grow. This way we can have more fruits and vegetables to eat.
Restaurant\n\nA restaurant is a place where you can go to eat food that someone else cooks for you. You sit down at a table and order from a list called a menu. Some restaurants are fast food places like McDonald's, where you get your food quickly and it does not cost a lot of money. At some fast food places, you can even stay in your car and get your food from a window. Other restaurants are fancier and have nicer food. Long ago, in ancient Greece and Rome, there were small places where people could buy food and drinks because many homes did not have kitchens.
Bridge\n\nA bridge is a thing you build to go over a river, a deep hole, or a road. People have walked on bridges for a very long time. Big bridges today let cars and trucks drive over water or other roads. Some bridges are made of stone and can last for thousands of years. Newer bridges are often made of steel. There are also special bridges that soldiers can move from place to place.
Wonders of the World\n\nWonders of the World are very special and famous buildings or places. A long time ago, people made a list of seven great buildings from old times. These were called the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. Most of them were built by the Greeks. Today, only one of those old wonders is still standing: the Great Pyramid. People also made new lists of wonders, like the Seven Wonders of the Modern World and the Seven Natural Wonders of the World. Some lists were chosen by voting on the internet. Many people like to visit these amazing places.
Kuwait\n\nKuwait is a small country in the Middle East. It is very hot and dry there, so not much food can grow. Kuwait has a lot of oil under the ground. The country sells this oil to make money. Many people from other countries live and work in Kuwait. The people there speak Arabic and English. In 1990, another country called Iraq came to fight in Kuwait. That started a war. Most people in Kuwait follow the religion of Islam.
Loudspeaker\n\nA loudspeaker is a thing that makes sound. You find it in radios, TVs, and music players. Inside, there is a paper cone, a wire coil, and a magnet. When electricity goes through the wire, it moves back and forth. This makes the paper cone shake and create sound. Some loudspeakers make low sounds, like a big drum. Others make high sounds, like a bird singing. Alexander Graham Bell made the first loudspeaker a long time ago.
Honey\n\nHoney is a sweet food made by honeybees. Bees collect nectar from flowers and turn it into honey. They store the honey in a honeycomb. Honey is very sweet and can be used instead of sugar. It comes in different colors and tastes, depending on which flowers the bees used. Some honey is light and some is dark. Honey does not go bad, even after a very long time. People have found honey in old jars from ancient Egypt that is still good to eat. Honey is thick and sticky. You can eat it on bread or in tea.
Pound sterling\n\nThe pound sterling is the money used in the United Kingdom. People also use it in some other places like the Isle of Man and Guernsey. One pound is the same as 100 pence. There are coins for 1 penny, 2 pence, 5 pence, 10 pence, 20 pence, 50 pence, 1 pound, and 2 pounds. There are paper notes for 5, 10, 20, and 50 pounds. Long ago, one pound was made of real silver. The symbol for pound looks like an L. The symbol for pence is p. Before 1971, the pound was split into 20 shillings, and each shilling was 12 pennies. That was a lot of numbers to remember! Now it is easier because one pound is just 100 pence.
Western Europe\n\nWestern Europe is a part of the world that has many countries. Some of these countries are Spain, the United Kingdom, and Norway. The land has long coastlines where the water meets the land. Many people there share the same way of life and work together with countries far away. Some countries in Western Europe are also part of a big group called the European Union.
Grasshopper\n\nA grasshopper is an insect with long, strong back legs that help it jump very far. It lives in places with lots of grass, like fields, gardens, and meadows. Grasshoppers eat grass, leaves, and plants. Some grasshoppers can change color when there are many of them together, and then they are called locusts. People in some parts of the world eat grasshoppers as food because they are good for you.
Control of fire by early humans\n\nLong, long ago, people learned how to make fire. This was a very big step for them. Fire gave them warmth and light. It kept them safe from wild animals and bugs.
Blindness\n\nBlindness is when a person cannot see anything. Some people who are blind can see a little bit, like blurry shapes or colors. People can be blind from birth, or they can become blind from sickness or an accident. Blind people use special tools to help them, like a book with bumps they can feel with their fingers, called braille. Some blind people have a helper dog that shows them where to go. Many blind people wear sunglasses to protect their eyes. There are famous blind people like Helen Keller and Stevie Wonder.
Automotive industry\n\nThe automotive industry is about making cars and other vehicles that drive on roads. It is a very big business that makes a lot of money. Long ago, cars were called "horseless carriages" because they did not need horses. The Ford Model T was a car that many people could buy for not much money. At first, most cars were made in the United States. Later, Japan made many cars too. Now, China makes more cars than any other country.
Platypus\n\nA platypus is a small animal that lives in Australia. It has a brown furry body and a wide flat tail like a beaver. Its nose is big and rubbery, like a duck's bill. Platypuses live in rivers and river banks. They are very good swimmers and have webbed feet to help them paddle. They sleep during the day and come out at night to find food. They eat worms, insects, and small shrimp from the bottom of the river. The male platypus has a sharp spike on its back ankles that can give a painful sting. Platypuses are special because they lay eggs, like birds, but they also make milk for their babies. The mother makes a nest in a long tunnel in the river bank and lays her eggs there. When the babies hatch, they drink milk from the mother's skin. After four months, the babies can take care of themselves.
Ceramic\n\nCeramic is a hard material that people make by heating clay or other special powders in a very hot oven. People have been making ceramics for a long time. They use their hands or a spinning wheel to shape the soft clay into bowls, plates, cups, and tiles. After shaping, the clay is baked until it becomes hard and strong. Some ceramics are smooth and shiny, like the tiles in a bathroom. Others are rough and have tiny holes. Ceramics can break easily if you drop them because they are brittle. You can find ceramics in many places, like in your kitchen in the form of plates and mugs, or in the walls of a house as bricks and tiles.
Drum\n\nA drum is a musical instrument that you hit to make a sound. You can hit it with your hands or with a special stick called a drum stick. Drums help keep a steady beat in a song. They can make music feel fast or slow. A group of drums and cymbals is called a drum kit. Drum kits are used in rock, jazz, country, and many other kinds of music. Some drums are acoustic, which means they make sound when you hit them. Other drums are electric, which make sound through a speaker or headphones. Electric drums are good for practicing quietly.
Orbit\n\nAn orbit is the path something takes in space when it goes around a bigger thing, like a star or a planet. The Earth goes around the Sun in an orbit. The Moon goes around the Earth in an orbit too. A long time ago, people thought the Sun went around the Earth, but now we know the Earth goes around the Sun. Gravity is what keeps things in their orbit. Some orbits are shaped like a circle, and some are shaped like a flattened circle, which is called an ellipse. The time it takes to go all the way around is called the orbital period. For Earth, that is one year.
Job\n\nA job is work that people do to get money. Some jobs are at home, like washing dishes or fixing things. Other jobs are for an employer who pays you. A teacher's job is to help children learn. A firefighter's job is to put out fires and save people. A taxi driver's job is to drive people around. Some jobs pay only a little money. A group called the International Labour Organization helps make jobs better for everyone.
Year\n\nA year is a long time that takes about 365 days. It is how long the Earth takes to go all the way around the sun. A year starts on January 1 and ends on December 31. Sometimes a year has 366 days, and that is called a leap year. A school year can start and end on different days.
Religion\n\nReligion is what people believe about God, the world, and how to live. Different religions have different ideas. Some people believe in one God. Some believe in many gods. Some believe in spirits. Many religions teach that people have a soul that lives on after the body dies. Religions have special days and ways of doing things, like praying or celebrating. People often go to a special building, like a church, to worship. The biggest religions are Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, and Judaism. People who do not believe in any god are called atheists.
Greeting\n\nA greeting is something you say or do when you meet someone. You can say "Hello" or "Hi" to start talking. You can also wave your hand or smile to say hello without words. Different people around the world greet in different ways.
Lake District\n\nThe Lake District is a place in England with many lakes and mountains. People go there on vacation to see the water and the hills. There are big lakes like Windermere and small ones called tarns. The land is very high in some spots, and it is one of the few places in England with tall mountains. The Lake District is also known for a poet named William Wordsworth who wrote about the beautiful nature there.
Meat\n\nMeat is the part of an animal that people eat. It comes from cows, pigs, sheep, chickens, and other animals. Meat helps your body grow strong because it has lots of protein. Some meat is red, like beef from cows, and some is white, like chicken. People cook meat before they eat it to make it safe and tasty. Some people choose not to eat meat, and they are called vegetarians.
Shiitake\n\nA shiitake is a kind of mushroom that people can eat. It is also called a black mushroom. It grows on trees like oak. Some shiitake mushrooms have cracks on top that look like flowers. They like cool weather to grow.
Italian literature\n\nItalian literature is made up of books and poems written in the Italian language. People in Italy started writing books in Italian a long time ago, around the 12th century. One of the most famous Italian writers is Dante Alighieri, who wrote a long poem called "The Divine Comedy." Another important writer is Alessandro Manzoni, who wrote a story called "The Betrothed." Many Italian writers have won a big prize called the Nobel Prize for their stories and poems.
History of the universe\n\nThe history of the universe is the story of everything that exists. It started a very long time ago with a big bang, like a giant explosion. At first, everything was packed together very tightly, and then it spread out fast. The universe is still getting bigger today. After the big bang, tiny pieces called atoms started to form. Atoms are what everything you can touch is made of. The first atoms were hydrogen and helium. They made big clouds of gas. Gravity pulled the gas together to make stars and galaxies. Some dust and gas also made planets, like our Earth. Earth formed about 4 billion years ago. Life on Earth started soon after, but people came much later. The universe will keep expanding for a very, very long time. Someday, it might end, but that will not happen for a super long time.
Mushroom\n\nA mushroom is a kind of food that grows in the ground. It is not a plant because it does not need sunlight to grow. Most mushrooms have a stem and a round top called a cap. Under the cap, there are little lines called gills that hold tiny seeds called spores. Some mushrooms are safe to eat and people cook them in soups and on pizza. But some mushrooms are poisonous and can make you very sick if you eat them. Mushrooms come in many colors and shapes. Some are white, some are brown, and some are even red.
Factory\n\nA factory is a big building where people use machines to make many things to sell. Before factories, people made things one by one at home or in small shops. Factories can make things very fast, like toys, cars, and clothes. Long ago, factories had bad working conditions. People worked long hours for little money. Sometimes children worked there too. Now, some factories use machines that work without people. Factories can also make the air dirty with smoke. Many people work in factories to make the things we use every day.
Hmong people\n\nHmong people are a group of people who first lived in China, near big rivers. Long ago, some Hmong people moved to other countries in Asia like Vietnam, Laos, Thailand, and Myanmar. Later, many Hmong people moved to the United States, Australia, France, and Canada. Today, Hmong people live in many places around the world. They have their own language and traditions. Some Hmong people are called White Hmong or Green Hmong.
Food preservation\n\nFood preservation is how we keep food from going bad. Food can get yucky if tiny germs get on it. A long time ago, people learned to dry food in the sun, like fish or meat. They also used salt to keep food fresh. Today, we still do some of the same things. We can put food in a jar with vinegar to make pickles. We can cook fruit with lots of sugar to make jam. We can also smoke meat over a fire to make it last longer. These ways help us save food to eat later.
Animal welfare\n\nAnimal welfare is about taking good care of animals. It means making sure animals have enough food, clean water, and a safe place to live. People who care about animal welfare want animals to be happy and healthy. This includes pets at home, animals on farms, and animals in zoos. It also means being kind to wild animals and not hurting them.
Jupiter (mythology)\n\nJupiter is the king of the gods in old Roman stories. He was the god of the sky and thunder. His brothers were Neptune and Pluto, and his sister was Ceres. When Jupiter was a baby, his father Saturn tried to eat him, but his mother hid him away. When Jupiter grew up, he made Saturn throw up his brothers and sisters. Then Jupiter and his brothers and sisters fought and beat Saturn and the other Titans. After that, Jupiter and his brothers split up the world. Jupiter got the sky, Neptune got the sea, and Pluto got the underworld. That is how Jupiter became the king of all the gods.
Predation\n\nPredation is when one animal hunts and eats another animal. The animal that does the hunting is called a predator. The animal that gets eaten is called prey. Predators like lions, sharks, and eagles catch other animals for food. Some predators hide and wait for their prey to come close. Others chase their prey very fast. Predators mostly eat meat.
Tulip\n\nA tulip is a flower that grows from a bulb in the ground. Tulips come in many colors like red, yellow, pink, and purple. They grow in gardens and parks. People like to plant them in pots too. Tulips grow in Europe, Africa, and Asia. They are the national flower of Afghanistan. Many people think of Holland when they see tulips.
Euro\n\nThe euro is a kind of money that many countries in Europe use together. One euro is made of 100 smaller pieces called cents. The euro comes in paper bills and metal coins. The bills are different colors and sizes, like a 5 euro bill that is gray and a 10 euro bill that is red. The coins have one side that looks the same in every country, and the other side has a special picture for each country. People can use the same euro money in all the countries that share it, like France, Germany, and Spain. The euro has a special sign that looks like a letter E with two lines across it.
Delhi\n\nDelhi is a big city in India. It is the place where the country's capital, New Delhi, is. Many people live there. The Yamuna River flows through Delhi. There are old buildings and monuments that tell stories from long ago. One famous monument is the India Gate, which is a war memorial. Delhi has a lot of air pollution, which can make it hard to breathe.
Nanjing\n\nNanjing is a big city in eastern China. It has many, many people living there. The name Nanjing means "The Southern Capital" in Chinese. A long time ago, a ruler named Yongle Emperor moved most of his government to Beijing, which means "The Northern Capital." Today, people spell the city's name as Nanjing. Nanjing has 11 parts called districts and is friends with 18 other cities around the world.
Fiji\n\nFiji is a country made of many islands in the big Pacific Ocean. It has 322 islands, and the biggest ones are Vanua Levu and Viti Levu. The main city is Suva, where many people live. About 844,330 people live in Fiji. People there speak Fijian, English, and Hindi. Fiji has lots of forests, fish, and pretty coral reefs. Many visitors come from Australia, New Zealand, and the USA to swim and dive in the warm water.
Japanese art\n\nJapanese art is the art made by people in Japan. It includes many kinds of art like painting with ink, making pottery, folding paper into shapes called origami, and writing beautifully with a brush. In Japan today, art also includes comic books called manga and cartoons called anime.
Trinidad and Tobago\n\nTrinidad and Tobago is a country in the warm Caribbean Sea. It is made of two big islands and many small ones. The capital city is Port-of-Spain. Many different kinds of people live there, like people whose families came from Africa, Europe, India, and China a long time ago. Some people believe in Christianity, and some believe in Hinduism. The country has gas under the ground and under the sea that helps make heat and run machines. People from far away visit the islands to take pictures and have fun. The people there are famous for making music and playing sports like football and cricket.
Galago\n\nA galago is a small animal that lives in trees in Africa. It is also called a bushbaby. Galagos come out at night to look for food. They have big eyes to see in the dark. They can jump very far from branch to branch. Galagos eat bugs like grasshoppers, and also eat fruit, seeds, and flowers. Some galagos use their teeth to get gum from tree bark.
Gravity\n\nGravity is a force that pulls things together. It is why things fall down to the ground. The Earth has gravity, so it pulls you, your toys, and everything else toward it. The Moon has less gravity than Earth, so you would feel lighter there. Gravity also keeps the Earth going around the Sun. Without gravity, everything would float away.
Olympic Games\n\nThe Olympic Games are a big sports party where people from all over the world come to play games and show how fast, strong, and good they are. There are Summer Games and Winter Games, and they happen every four years. The first Olympic Games were a long, long time ago in a place called Greece. People ran races, wrestled, and did other sports. Today, athletes from many countries compete for gold, silver, and bronze medals. The Olympic flag has five rings that stand for the different parts of the world. A torch is lit and carried to the city where the games will be held. The games start with a big opening show and end with a closing party.
0\n\nZero is a number that means none. It looks like a round circle, like the letter O but a little thinner. You see it on clocks, in books, and on your fingers when you make a fist. It helps us count when there is nothing there. If you have zero cookies, you have no cookies at all.
20th-century classical music\n\n20th-century classical music is music that people wrote for orchestras and singers in the last hundred years. It sounds very different from older music because the people who made it tried many new ideas. Some of it is soft and dreamy, like a painting made of sound. Some of it is loud and jumpy, with beats that surprise you. You can hear it in big concert halls, in movies, or sometimes in cartoons. One famous piece sounds like a bird singing, and another sounds like a big, exciting dance.
3D\n\n3D means something has three sides you can measure. It is not flat like a drawing on paper. A box is 3D because it has a front, a back, a top, a bottom, and two sides. You can hold it and turn it to see all around. In movies and games, people use computers to make pictures look 3D on a flat screen. Your two eyes help you see how far away things are, which is part of seeing in 3D.
Aardvark\n\nAn aardvark is a furry animal that lives in Africa. It has a long nose, big ears, and a long sticky tongue. Its body is pale yellow-gray, but it often looks red-brown from dirt. It sleeps during the day and wakes up at night. It digs tunnels in the ground very fast. It eats ants and termites using its long tongue. A baby aardvark is called a cub.
Abacus\n\nAn abacus is a counting tool with beads that slide on sticks. It has a wooden frame and rows of beads. You can find it in some shops and schools. People use it to add, take away, and do other math. A blind person can touch the beads to count. In one kind, the top beads mean five and the bottom beads mean one.
Abdomen\n\nThe abdomen is the belly part of your body. It sits between your chest and your legs. Inside it are many soft parts that help you stay alive, like your stomach and your guts. It has strong muscles that help you bend and twist. When you eat food, it goes down into your abdomen. You can feel your abdomen when you touch your tummy.
Abortion\n\nAbortion is when a pregnancy ends before a baby is born. It can happen on its own, which some people call a miscarriage. Sometimes a doctor helps end the pregnancy. This is a very serious and private choice. People have many different feelings about it. It is not something a young child needs to worry about.
About\n\nAbout means almost or close to. It tells you something is not exact. If you have about five cookies, you might have four or six. It helps when you do not know the exact number. You can say, "I am about to go outside," which means you will go very soon.
Above\n\nAbove means something is higher up. It is the opposite of below. When you look up at the sky, you see clouds above you. A bird flying over a tree is above the tree. In a house, the roof is above the rooms. You can put a toy on a shelf above your bed.
Abraham\n\nAbraham is a very important person from old, old stories. He is a man who lived a long, long time ago. Many people think of him as a father because his family grew into big groups of people. He listened to God and went to a new land. He had a wife named Sarah and a son named Isaac. People still tell stories about him today.
Abraham Lincoln\n\nAbraham Lincoln was a man who was the leader of America a long time ago. He was very tall and wore a tall black hat. He helped make a rule that all people should be free. You can see his face on the penny coin.
Abstract\n\nAbstract is a way to talk about ideas you cannot touch or see. It is not a thing like a toy or a cookie. You can think about feelings like love or happiness, and those are abstract. Colors and shapes can also be abstract when they do not look like a real thing. In art, an abstract painting uses colors and lines to show a feeling, not a picture of a house or a tree.
Abstract art\n\nAbstract art is a kind of picture or statue that does not look like real things. It uses colors, lines, and shapes. You can find it in a museum or a big art book. People look at it and feel happy, calm, or excited. It does not show a house or a person, but it can still be pretty. Some artists make it by splashing paint or drawing big circles.
Abu Dhabi\n\nAbu Dhabi is a big city where many people live. It is the most important city in a country called the United Arab Emirates. The city sits on an island in warm blue water. It is very hot there in summer, and it does not rain much. People from all over the world visit to see a huge white mosque and a fast car park. Long ago, people found black oil under the ground, and that helped the city grow.
Academic art\n\nAcademic art is a way of making pictures and statues from a long time ago. It follows many rules from art schools. The rules say what a good picture should look like. It often shows people from old stories, like gods and heroes. You can see it in big museums with old paintings. The people in it look very real, like a photo. It was very popular before a new way of painting called impressionism came along.
Academy Award\n\nAn Academy Award is a shiny gold statue given to people who make movies. It is about as tall as a big water bottle and feels heavy. You can see it on TV when movie stars dress up and walk on a red carpet. It is a prize for the best acting, best story, or best music in a movie. A famous cartoon cat and mouse named Tom and Jerry even won one.
Acceleration\n\nAcceleration is how fast something gets faster. It is a change in speed. When you ride a bike and start going faster, that is acceleration. It can also mean slowing down, like when a car stops. You feel it when a car starts moving or when it brakes.
Accent\n\nAn accent is the special way a person talks. It is how the words sound when they come out of your mouth. You can hear it when someone says the same word but it sounds a little different. It often tells you where a person grew up. For example, a friend from another town might say 'water' in a funny way, but you still know what they mean.
Accident\n\nAn accident is something bad that happens when you do not mean it. It can be a small thing, like spilling milk on the table. It can also be a big thing, like a car bumping into another car. When an accident happens, someone might get a small hurt or feel sad. You can help by saying sorry and being careful next time.
Accordion\n\nAn accordion is a music box you hold in your hands. It has a part with small white and black keys like a tiny piano. In the middle, it has soft folded paper that opens and closes. When you push and pull it, air moves inside and makes a happy sound. Some have round buttons instead of keys. You can hear it in songs at a party or a fair.
Account\n\nAn account is like a special box that keeps track of things. It can hold your name, a secret word, and what you do. You use it to get into a game or a website. It remembers your toys or points so you can play again later. Mom and Dad also have an account at the bank to keep money safe.
Accounting\n\nAccounting is a job where people keep track of money for a business. It writes down every time money comes in and every time money goes out. This helps the business know if it has more money than it spends. People called accountants do this work. They use big books or computers to write everything down. A store near your house uses accounting to pay for things like food and toys.
Accra\n\nAccra is a big city in a country called Ghana. It has many people, tall buildings, and busy streets. It sits near the ocean, so you can see big boats and fishermen. Long ago, people from faraway lands built old stone forts there. Today, it is the most important city in Ghana, where the country's leaders work and where many people come to buy and sell things.
Achaemenid Empire\n\nThe Achaemenid Empire was a very big land ruled by one king a long, long time ago. It had many people and many cities. The king lived in a big, fancy house. People from far away brought gifts to the king. It was one of the first big empires in the world.
Ache\n\nAn ache is a hurt that stays for a while. It is not a sharp, quick pain like a pinch. It feels dull and heavy, like a sore muscle after running a lot. You might feel it in your tummy when you are sick, or in your head when you are tired. Resting or a warm hug can make it feel better.
Achilles\n\nAchilles is a strong hero from very old stories. He is a man who fights in a big war long ago. In the stories, his whole body is safe from harm, except one spot on his heel. An arrow hits that spot, and he falls. Today, people call a weak spot an "Achilles heel." You have a part on your foot called the Achilles tendon. It is a thick band that helps you walk and run.
Acid\n\nAn acid is a kind of sour-tasting stuff. It can be a liquid, and it often has a sharp smell. You find it in lemons, oranges, and vinegar. It can burn your skin if it is very strong, so you must be careful. Your tummy uses a weak acid to help break down food. Some acids are safe to eat, like the ones in fruit.
Acid rain\n\nAcid rain is rain that has bad stuff mixed in from dirty air. It looks like normal rain, but it is not safe. It falls from clouds when smoke from cars and big buildings goes up into the sky. It can hurt trees, fish, and even old stone buildings. When it falls on a lake, the fish can get sick. People work hard to make the air cleaner so there is less of it.
Acne\n\nAcne is a skin problem that makes red bumps on the skin. It often shows up on the face, chest, or back. The bumps can be sore and sometimes leave little marks. Many young people get it when they grow up, but older people can get it too. A doctor can help make it better with special creams.
Aconcagua\n\nAconcagua is a very tall mountain. It is the tallest mountain in all of the Americas. It is in a country called Argentina, in a big park with many other mountains. It is so high that the top is covered with snow all year. People climb it, but it can be very hard and cold. The wind can blow very strong, and the air gets thin at the top. Many people try to climb it every year, but some get sick and cannot finish. It is one of the tallest mountains in the whole world.
Acoustics\n\nAcoustics is a science about how sound moves. It looks at how sound travels through air, water, and hard things like walls. When you shout in a big empty room and hear your voice come back, that is an echo. Acoustics helps people make music halls where the sound is clear and nice. It also helps make quiet rooms where you can hear a pin drop.
Acrobatics\n\nAcrobatics is a way of moving your body in amazing ways. It is like dancing, jumping, and balancing all at once. You can see it at a circus or a show. A person who does acrobatics is called an acrobat. They can flip in the air, stand on their hands, or walk on a thin rope. It takes a lot of practice to be so strong and bendy.
Acropolis of Athens\n\nThe Acropolis of Athens is a big, rocky hill in the middle of a city called Athens. On top of it, people long ago built beautiful stone buildings. One of them is the Parthenon, a very old temple with tall white columns. It looks like a giant house with no roof. Many people visit it today to see the old stones and learn about the past. You can see it from far away because it sits high above the city.
Across\n\nAcross means from one side to the other side. You can walk across a room or a street. A bridge helps you go across a river. When you draw a line across your paper, it goes from one edge to the other edge.
Act\n\nAn act is something you do. It can be a big thing, like helping a friend, or a small thing, like waving your hand. When you sing a song or dance, that is an act too. People on a stage act out stories to make others laugh or think. Every day, you do many acts, like eating breakfast or giving a hug.
Action\n\nAn action is something you do. It can be big like jumping or small like blinking. You use your body to make an action happen. When you wave hello, that is an action. When you clap your hands, that is an action too. Every day you do many actions without even thinking.
Action figure\n\nAn action figure is a small toy that looks like a person. It is made of hard plastic and can bend its arms and legs. You can find it in a toy store or at home in a toy box. A child plays with it by making it stand, sit, or hold things. It often looks like a hero from a movie, a cartoon, or a comic book. Some grown-ups also keep it on a shelf just to look at.
Activism\n\nActivism is when people work together to change something they think is wrong. It can be a big walk in the street with signs and songs. Sometimes people sit down and do not move until someone listens. It can also be a day when workers stop working to ask for fair pay. When art is used to share a message, it is called artivism. You might see bright pictures on a wall that tell a story about helping others.
Activity\n\nAn activity is something you do. It can be playing with toys, drawing a picture, or running outside. You do an activity with your hands, your feet, or your whole body. At school, you might do a fun activity like singing a song or building with blocks. At home, you might do a quiet activity like looking at a book. An activity can be done alone or with friends.
Actor\n\nAn actor is a person who pretends to be someone else in a show. He can be in a movie, on TV, or on a stage in a play. He wears different clothes and says words from a story. Sometimes he sings or dances too. You might see an actor in a cartoon, but you only hear his voice. When you watch a movie with your family, the people on the screen are actors.
Actress\n\nAn actress is a woman who pretends to be someone else in a show. She wears special clothes and says words from a story. You can see her on a big screen at the movies or on a small screen at home. She works with other people to make the story feel real. When you watch a cartoon, sometimes an actress gives her voice to the character.
Adam and Eve\n\nAdam and Eve are the first man and woman in a very old story. They lived in a pretty garden with trees and animals. God told them not to eat fruit from one special tree. But a sneaky snake tricked them, and they ate it. After that, they had to leave the garden. The story says they are the first parents of all people.
Adam Smith\n\nAdam Smith was a man who thought a lot about money and how people buy and sell things. He lived a long time ago in a country called Scotland. He wrote a big book about why some places have more food and toys than others. His ideas help us understand why people work and trade. Today, many grown-ups still read his book to learn about money.
Adaptation\n\nAdaptation is a slow change that helps a living thing live better in its home. It happens over a very long time, from parents to babies to their babies. It can be a body part, like a horse's strong legs for running fast. It can also be a way of acting, like birds flying south when it gets cold. A good example is a polar bear's white fur, which keeps it warm and hides it in the snow.
Add\n\nAdd means to put things together to make a bigger group. When you have two apples and you get one more, you add them and now you have three apples. You can add numbers, like two plus one makes three. You can also add blocks to a tower to make it taller. Adding is something you do every day when you count your toys or share snacks with a friend.
Adder\n\nAn adder is a kind of snake. It has a long body with no legs and a forked tongue. Its skin can be gray or brown with dark marks along the back. It lives in grassy fields and woods in many parts of the world. It eats small animals like mice and frogs. It has a bite that can hurt, but it is not mean and only bites when scared. Some places have rules to keep it safe.
Addiction\n\nAddiction is when a person feels they must do something over and over, even if it hurts them. It can be about a thing, like a game or a sweet treat, or a feeling from a drink or a pill. The person finds it very hard to stop, even when they want to. It can make them feel sick or sad if they try to stop. A grown-up can help someone with an addiction feel better.
Addis Ababa\n\nAddis Ababa is a big city in a country called Ethiopia. It is the most important city there. It sits very high up, like on a tall hill. Many people from different places live in it, and they speak many languages. You can find a big school there where people go to learn. Long ago, a king and queen built it near a mountain.
Addition\n\nAddition is putting things together to see how many you have. It uses a plus sign that looks like a small cross. You can add numbers, like when you have two apples and get three more, you have five apples. It works the same no matter which number you start with. You can also add things like steps or blocks. Every time you count up, you are adding one.
Address\n\nAn address tells you where a person lives or where a building is. It has a house number, a street name, a town, and sometimes a country. You see it written on letters and boxes that come in the mail. When you want to visit a friend, you need their address to find their house. It helps the mail carrier bring the right letter to the right door.
Adhesive\n\nAn adhesive is a sticky thing that holds two things together. It can be wet like glue or dry like tape. You can find it at home, at school, or in a craft box. People use it to fix broken toys, stick paper, or build things. A sticker on your shirt is one kind of adhesive.
Adjective\n\nAn adjective is a word that tells us more about a thing. It can say how something looks, feels, or acts. You find adjectives in stories and when people talk. For example, in "a big red ball," the words "big" and "red" are adjectives. They help you picture the ball in your mind.
Adolescence\n\nAdolescence is the time when a child grows into a grown-up. It happens between being a kid and being an adult. During this time, the body changes a lot. A boy's voice may get deeper, and hair grows on his face. A girl's body changes shape, and she may start having periods. Both boys and girls may get pimples on their skin. They also feel new feelings and may want to be more independent. This time can last from around age 10 to age 25.
Adolf Hitler\n\nAdolf Hitler was a man who lived a long time ago. He was the leader of a country called Germany. He had a small mustache and dark hair. He did many bad things and started a big war. Many people were hurt because of him. Today, people learn about him in school so they remember to be kind.
Adoption\n\nAdoption is when a grown-up takes a child into their home and becomes the child's new mom or dad forever. It is a way to make a family. The child may look different from the new parents, but they are a real family. The new parents take care of the child, give them food, a bed, and lots of love. Some children are adopted when they are babies, and some are older. The child may feel happy, but sometimes they also feel sad or have many questions. They might wonder about their first mom and dad. When they grow up, some adopted children want to meet their first parents. Adoption means the new family stays together always.
Adriatic Sea\n\nThe Adriatic Sea is a big stretch of water. It is part of an even bigger sea called the Mediterranean. It sits between two long pieces of land: Italy on one side and a group of other countries on the other side. The water is not very deep in most places. Big boats and small boats sail on it to carry people and things. Many people visit its shores in summer to swim and play on the beach.
Adult\n\nAn adult is a person who is all grown up. He is bigger and taller than a child. You can find adults everywhere—at home, at work, at the store. He can make his own choices, like what to eat or where to go. A grown-up can also take care of himself and help others. Your mom, dad, and teacher are all adults.
Adventure\n\nAn adventure is a fun trip or a big, new thing you do. It can be going to a park you have never seen before. It can be looking for bugs under a rock in the yard. Sometimes an adventure is a story in a book where a hero goes far away. You can have an adventure with your family or your friends. It makes your heart beat fast in a happy way.
Advertising\n\nAdvertising is when a company tells people about a thing they can buy. It uses pictures, words, or songs to get your attention. You can see it on TV, on the radio, or on big signs by the road. Sometimes it pops up on a computer or a phone. It helps you know about a new toy or a yummy snack. A short TV ad is often 30 seconds long. A movie ad is called a trailer and shows fun clips.
Advice\n\nAdvice is when someone tells you what they think you should do. It is like a helpful hint from a friend or a grown-up. You can get advice at home, at school, or from a book. A mom might give advice about how to share toys. A teacher might give advice about how to write your name. It helps you make a good choice when you are not sure.
Aegean Sea\n\nThe Aegean Sea is a big body of water. It sits between two lands called Greece and Turkey. It has many small islands with sandy beaches and blue water. Long ago, people used boats to sail across it and trade food and cloth. Today, families visit the islands to swim and play in the sun.
Aeneas\n\nAeneas is a hero from very old stories. He was a prince from a city called Troy. In one story, he carries his father on his back to keep him safe from a big fire. Later, people say his family helped start the city of Rome. You can find him in books and songs that are thousands of years old.
Aerodynamics\n\nAerodynamics is about how air moves around things. It helps us understand why a ball flies far when you throw it. It also helps make cars and planes go fast and smooth. A plane wing has a special shape so air pushes it up. That push is called lift. Lift helps the plane stay in the sky. When you ride a bike fast, you feel air push your face. That push is drag. Aerodynamics helps make drag small so things can move easy.
Aerosol\n\nAn aerosol is a tiny bit of something floating in the air. It can be a small drop of water or a tiny piece of dust. You can see it when you look at smoke from a fire or fog on a cold day. Sometimes people use a can that sprays out a mist, like when you spray paint or hair spray. That mist is also an aerosol.
Aesthetic\n\nAesthetic is about what looks pretty or nice. It is the way something feels when you see it, like a bright rainbow or a soft pink flower. You can find it in a tidy room, a colorful drawing, or a song that makes you happy. People use it when they pick clothes that match or put stickers on a card. A birthday cake with sprinkles and candles is a good example of something with a nice aesthetic.
Aesthetics\n\nAesthetics is about what makes things look or feel nice. It asks why we like a pretty flower, a fun song, or a soft blanket. Some people think beauty is different for everyone — what you love, your friend might not. Others look for rules, like shapes that feel just right. You use aesthetics when you pick your favorite color or say a drawing is pretty.
Afghanistan\n\nAfghanistan is a country in Asia. It has tall mountains, dry deserts, and some rivers. Many people there live in small villages and grow food. The capital city is Kabul. It is a very old place where people have lived for a long, long time.
Afraid\n\nAfraid is a feeling you get when something seems scary. It can make your heart beat fast and your hands feel shaky. You might feel it when you are in the dark or when you hear a loud noise. It is okay to feel afraid sometimes. A hug from someone you love can help it go away.
Africa\n\nAfrica is a very big piece of land on Earth. It has many countries, like Nigeria and Egypt. It is hot in some parts and dry in others, with a big desert called the Sahara. Many wild animals live there, such as lions, elephants, and giraffes. Long ago, the first people came from Africa. Today, many different people live there and speak many languages.
African\n\nAfrican means something or someone from Africa. Africa is a big, warm place with many countries. It has wide, dry lands called deserts and green places with tall trees. Many different animals live there, like lions, elephants, and giraffes. People in Africa speak many languages and wear colorful clothes. Some African music uses drums that you can feel in your chest.
African art\n\nAfrican art is art made by people in Africa. It can be a painting, a mask, a statue, or a cloth with bright colors. Many pieces are made from wood, clay, or beads. You might see it in a museum or in a book about faraway places. People use it to tell stories, to dance, or to make a home look nice. A wooden mask with big eyes is one kind of African art.
African buffalo\n\nAn African buffalo is a big wild animal that looks like a cow. It has dark brown or black skin and two large curved horns on its head. It lives in Africa, in places with grass and trees. It eats only plants, like grass and leaves. It is very strong and can be dangerous, so people do not keep it on a farm. Sometimes you can see it in a zoo or in a nature show on TV.
African Great Lakes\n\nThe African Great Lakes are a group of very big lakes in Africa. They sit in a long, deep crack in the ground called a rift. You can find them in countries like Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, and Tanzania. The lakes hold lots of fresh water, and many fish live in them. People use the water for drinking, washing, and growing food. One of the lakes is so big it looks like a sea.
African Traditional Religions\n\nAfrican Traditional Religions are the old ways of believing and praying that many people in Africa have followed for a very long time. They are not one single thing, but many different ways from many different places. People who follow them believe in one big God who made everything, and also in smaller spirits that live in trees, rivers, and the sky. They often sing, dance, and tell stories to feel close to these spirits. They also show great respect to older family members who have passed away, because they believe those family members can still watch over them. You might see special masks, colorful clothes, and hear drums when they have a happy time together.
After\n\nAfter means something happens later in time. It is the time that comes when one thing is done. You wash your hands after you play outside. After lunch, you might take a nap. After the sun goes down, it gets dark and you go to sleep.
Afterlife\n\nAfterlife is the idea that something happens to you after your body stops working. Some people think you go to a happy place up in the sky. Others think you come back as a new baby or a little animal. Many people around the world talk about it, but nobody knows for sure. It is a big mystery that grown-ups wonder about.
Afternoon\n\nAfternoon is the time of day after lunch and before it gets dark. It comes after the morning is over. The sun is high in the sky, and it feels warm. Many children play outside in the afternoon. Some people take a short nap when they feel sleepy. It is a good time for a snack like fruit or crackers.
Again\n\nAgain means one more time. When you do something again, you do it after the first time. You might ask a friend to read a story again because you liked it. If you jump in a puddle, you can jump again and again. It is a word that tells us something is happening not just once.
Against\n\nAgainst means one thing is touching or pushing another thing. It is like when you lean your back on a wall. You can put a book against a shelf so it does not fall. In a race, one team plays against the other team. It can also mean you do not want something, like when you say no to a rule.
Agave\n\nAgave is a plant with thick, pointy leaves. It grows in hot, dry places like Mexico. The leaves are green or blue-gray and have sharp tips. People use it to make a sweet syrup that goes on pancakes. It lives for many years and grows very slowly.
Age\n\nAge is how many years someone has lived. It tells us if a person is a baby, a child, a grown-up, or very old. You can count age with numbers, like when you turn four or five on your birthday. Every year, you get one year older. A baby has a small age, like one or two. A grandma or grandpa has a big age, like sixty or seventy. You can ask a friend, "How old are you?" to know their age.
Age of Discovery\n\nThe Age of Discovery was a time long ago when people from Europe sailed big ships across the ocean. They wanted to find new places and new things to trade, like gold and spices. Some of these sailors found lands they did not know before, like the Americas. They made maps of these new places and met people who already lived there. One famous sailor was Christopher Columbus. He sailed across the big blue sea and found a land that was new to him. This time changed how people saw the world.
Age Of Enlightenment\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment was a time long ago when people started to think in new ways. It happened in places like Europe. During this time, many people began to ask big questions about how to live, how to be fair, and how to learn about the world. They used their own minds instead of just believing what they were told. They wrote books and shared ideas. This helped make schools, science, and rules that are fair for everyone.
Ageing\n\nAgeing is the way a living thing changes as it gets older. It happens to people, animals, and plants. When a person ages, their hair may turn gray and their skin gets lines. They may move more slowly and need more rest. A grandpa or grandma is a good example of ageing. They were once young like you, but over many years their bodies changed.
Aggression\n\nAggression is when someone acts in a mean way to hurt another person. It can be hitting, pushing, or saying mean words. Sometimes a person feels very angry and wants to fight. Other times, a person acts mean to get a toy or to be the boss. You might see it when two kids argue over a ball and one pushes the other. It is not nice, and it can make people feel sad or scared.
Ago\n\nAgo means something happened before now. It tells us how much time has passed. When you say "I ate a snack five minutes ago," it means you ate it five minutes before this moment. You can use ago with words like days, weeks, or years. For example, "We went to the park two days ago." It helps us talk about the past in a simple way.
Agra\n\nAgra is a big city in India. It has many old, beautiful buildings made of white stone. One famous building is a big, round-topped house called the Taj Mahal. People from all over the world come to see it. The city is next to a river, and you can ride a small, three-wheeled car to get around.
Agree\n\nTo agree means you say yes to something. When a friend asks, "Do you want to play?" and you say, "Yes, I do!" that is agreeing. It is like sharing the same idea or feeling. When you agree, you might nod your head up and down. People agree when they pick the same game or the same snack. It feels nice when everyone agrees.
Agricultural science\n\nAgricultural science is a way of learning about farms and food. It looks at how plants grow and how animals live on a farm. People who study it help farmers grow more food. They also find ways to keep the soil healthy. You can see it at work when you eat an apple or a carrot from a farm.
Agriculture\n\nAgriculture is how people grow food and raise animals. It happens on big open land called a farm. A farmer uses it to plant seeds in the dirt. The seeds grow into plants like corn, rice, and wheat. The farmer also takes care of animals like cows, pigs, and chickens. From it we get milk, eggs, meat, and wool. You see it when you eat bread, drink milk, or wear a cotton shirt.
Ahead\n\nAhead means in front of you or before now. When you walk, you look ahead to see where you are going. It can also mean something that will happen later, like your birthday is ahead if it is next week. When you are in a line, the person ahead of you is the one in front.
Air\n\nAir is the invisible stuff all around us. It has no color, no taste, and no smell. You can feel it when the wind blows or when you wave your hand fast. People and animals need air to breathe. It goes into our bodies through our nose and mouth. Trees and plants also need air. Even though you cannot see it, air is always there, inside and outside.
Air conditioner\n\nAn air conditioner is a machine that makes the air inside a room feel cool. It has a box that sits outside and a part that hangs on the wall or sits in a window. You can find it in many homes, cars, and big buildings. It works by pulling warm air out and pushing cool air in. On a hot summer day, it helps you feel nice and fresh.
Air mass\n\nAn air mass is a big chunk of air that moves together. It can be warm or cold, and it can be wet or dry. You cannot see it, but you can feel it on your skin. When a cold air mass comes, the day feels chilly. When a warm air mass comes, the day feels hot. Weather people watch air masses to know if it will rain or be sunny.
Air pollution\n\nAir pollution is when the air gets dirty with things that are bad for us. It can be smoke from cars or factories. Sometimes it comes from dust, fires, or volcanoes. Dirty air can make people cough or feel sick. It can also hurt trees and fish. Inside a house, the air can be dirty too, from paint or new rugs. People try to keep the air clean so everyone can breathe safely.
Aircraft\n\nAn aircraft is a big machine that flies in the sky. It has wings that help it stay up in the air. Some aircraft have engines that make them go fast, and some float like a balloon. You can see an aircraft at an airport, where people get on to travel far away. A pilot is the person who drives it. An airplane is one kind of aircraft that many families use to go on trips.
Aircraft carrier\n\nAn aircraft carrier is a very big boat that carries airplanes. It has a long, flat top that looks like a small road on the water. Airplanes take off from the top and land back on it. The boat moves on the ocean and can go far away from land. It is like a floating airport. Many people work on it to help the airplanes fly. You might see one in a picture book or a movie about the sea.
Airline\n\nAn airline is a company that flies people and things from one place to another. It uses big airplanes with wings and engines. You can find an airline at an airport, where the planes take off and land. It helps families go on trips far away very fast. When you look up at the sky and see a white trail, that might be an airplane from an airline.
Airplane\n\nAn airplane is a big machine that flies in the sky. It has two long wings, a body, and a tail. You can see it at an airport. It takes people and things far away very fast. A pilot sits inside and makes it go. Some airplanes are small, and some are very big. They can fly over the ocean in just a few hours.
Airport\n\nAn airport is a big place where airplanes go up into the sky and come back down. It has a long flat road called a runway for the planes to roll on. There is a big building where people wait for their plane. Inside, you walk through a special door that beeps if you have metal. People put bags in a machine that looks inside. You can see shops and places to eat. When it is time, you walk through a gate to get on the plane.
Airship\n\nAn airship is a big flying thing that floats in the sky. It looks like a long, round balloon. It has a motor that makes it go, and a tail with fins to help it turn. You can see it in the sky at big games or shows, where it carries a sign or a picture. A long time ago, people used it to travel, but now it is mostly for fun.
Al Khwarizmi\n\nAl Khwarizmi was a very smart man who lived a long, long time ago. He wrote books about numbers and how to use them. He helped people learn new ways to add, take away, and solve number puzzles. Many of the number rules we use today come from his ideas. He is like a teacher from long ago who helped everyone understand math better.
Aladdin\n\nAladdin is a young man from a very old story. He finds a magic lamp in a dark cave. Inside the lamp lives a big, strong helper called a djinn. The djinn can make any wish come true. With the lamp, Aladdin gets rich and marries a princess. A bad man tries to steal the lamp, but Aladdin gets it back. Many children know Aladdin from a colorful movie.
Alan Turing\n\nAlan Turing was a very smart man who liked math and puzzles. He lived a long time ago. He helped make the first big thinking machines, which are like the brain inside a computer. He also helped solve secret codes during a big war. Today, people remember him as a hero who helped start computers.
Alaska\n\nAlaska is a very big piece of land that is part of the United States. It is far up north, near a cold ocean and next to Canada. It has tall mountains, white ice called glaciers, and many wild animals like brown bears and moose. People in Alaska catch fish like salmon from the sea. Some people work to get oil from deep under the ground. The biggest city is Anchorage, where many people live. In winter, it is very cold and dark, and in summer, the sun stays up late.
Albania\n\nAlbania is a country in Europe. It has tall mountains, blue sea water, and green fields. Many people live in towns and cities there. The biggest city is called Tirana. People in Albania speak a language called Albanian. They cook food with meat, bread, and fresh vegetables. A bird with two heads is a special sign for the country.
Albatross\n\nAn albatross is a very big bird that lives near the sea. It has long wings and a strong, sharp beak. It spends most of its life flying over the ocean. It eats fish, squid, and tiny sea animals. You can see it on islands far away, where it makes a nest on the ground.
Albert\n\nAlbert is a name for a boy. It is a short name with two parts: Al and bert. You might meet a boy named Albert at school or at the park. Sometimes a grandpa or an uncle has this name too. A famous Albert was a man with big, messy hair who thought very hard about how the world works.
Albert Einstein\n\nAlbert Einstein was a very smart man. He had white hair and a kind face. He thought about big ideas like light, time, and space. He lived a long time ago, but people still remember him. He helped us understand how the world works.
Album\n\nAn album is a set of songs that you can listen to. It is like a book, but with music instead of pages. You can find it in a store or on a phone. People play it to hear many songs from one singer or band. Each song on it is called a track. A track is one piece of music. You can pick the first track, the second track, or any track you like. Some albums are made in a quiet room, and some are made at a big show with lots of people clapping.
Alchemy\n\nAlchemy is a very old way of trying to change one thing into another. It was done long ago before we had science. People who did it wanted to turn plain metal into gold. They also looked for a magic stone and a special drink that could make you live forever. It mixed real things with magic and stars. Today we do not use alchemy. We use chemistry instead, which is the real study of what things are made of.
Alcoholic\n\nAn alcoholic is a person who drinks too much alcohol and cannot stop. He may feel sick if he does not drink. He might act different than usual, like being sad or angry. You might see him at a party holding a bottle or a can. Doctors and family can help him get better.
Alcoholic Beverage\n\nAn alcoholic beverage is a drink that has a special part called alcohol in it. It can look like water, juice, or a bubbly drink. Grown-ups sometimes have it at parties or with dinner. It is not for kids because it can make people feel funny and sick. You might see bottles of it at a store or in the kitchen.
Alder\n\nAn alder is a kind of tree. It has a brown trunk and green leaves with little bumps along the edge. It grows in places where the ground is wet, like near a river or a pond. In spring, it grows long, soft, hanging parts that hold tiny yellow dust. The wind blows the dust to other flowers so new seeds can grow. Later, little hard green balls appear and turn brown. Bees like to visit the alder for food in early spring.
Alexander\n\nAlexander is a name for a boy. He is a person, just like you have a name. You might meet an Alexander at school or at the park. He can be a friend who likes to play games and share toys. Sometimes, a storybook has a boy named Alexander who goes on adventures.
Alexander The Great\n\nAlexander the Great was a king a long, long time ago. He lived far away in a land called Greece. He was very strong and brave, and he led a big army. He rode a horse and carried a sword. He won many fights and his land grew very big. People still tell stories about him today.
Alexandria\n\nAlexandria is a big city in Egypt. It sits right next to a big blue sea. Long ago, a king named Alexander started the city. It once had the biggest library in the world, full of books. Today, many big boats stop there to bring food and things to people.
Algae\n\nAlgae are tiny living things that live in water. They are like very small plants. They make their own food from sunlight. You can find them in ponds, lakes, and the ocean. Sometimes they make the water look green. Fish and other water animals eat them.
Algebra\n\nAlgebra is a part of math that uses letters for numbers we do not know yet. It helps us solve puzzles with numbers. You can find it in school books and on a chalkboard. People use it to build things like bridges and to make phones work. For example, if you have 2 apples and get more apples to have 5, algebra helps find how many you got.
Algeria\n\nAlgeria is a big country in Africa. It sits next to the blue sea in the north. In the south, it has a huge, hot desert with sand and rocks. Many people live in the north where the land is green and good for growing food. The biggest city is Algiers. People there speak Arabic and another old language called Berber. They also often speak French. Long ago, other people ruled Algeria, but now it is its own country. It has lots of oil and gas under the ground, which helps it make money.
Algiers\n\nAlgiers is a big city in Africa. It sits next to the sea in the north of a country called Algeria. Long ago, it had small islands right by the land, but now they are part of the city. Many people live there and work in tall buildings. It is a place where people from far away come to talk and share ideas.
Alhambra\n\nThe Alhambra is a big, old castle in Spain. It sits on a hill in a city called Granada. Long ago, kings and queens lived there. It has many rooms with pretty walls and quiet gardens with water. Today, many people visit to see the beautiful old building. It is one of the most famous places in Spain.
Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\n\nAlice's Adventures in Wonderland is a made-up story about a girl named Alice. It is a book with words and pictures. You can find it in a library or a bookstore. In the story, Alice follows a white rabbit and falls down a hole. She meets funny friends like a talking cat and a queen. Many people have made movies and songs about it.
Alike\n\nAlike means two things look or act almost the same. It is like when you have two red apples and you cannot tell which is which. You can find things that are alike in your toy box, like two blue blocks. When you and your friend both wear a yellow shirt, you look alike. It helps us see how things match.
Alive\n\nAlive means something is living and not dead. A dog, a tree, and a person are all alive. When something is alive, it grows, moves, and needs food and water. A rock is not alive because it does not grow or eat. You are alive when you run, play, and breathe.
All\n\nAll means every one or the whole group. When you have a box of crayons and you take out every single crayon, you have all the crayons. It is the opposite of none. You might hear someone say "all done" when they finish their food. All can also mean the whole thing, like when you eat all of your snack.
Allah\n\nAllah is a name for God. It is a word people use in the Arabic language. Many Muslims say Allah when they talk about God. Some Christians and Jewish people who speak Arabic also use the name Allah. It means the one God who made everything.
Allergy\n\nAn allergy is when your body does not like a normal thing. It can be a food, like peanuts or milk. It can be something in the air, like dust or tiny bits from a cat. When the thing touches you or goes inside you, your body fights it too hard. Your eyes may get red and wet. Your nose may run and you may sneeze a lot. Your skin may get red bumps that itch. If it is a food, your tummy may hurt. Sometimes the throat can swell up and make it hard to breathe. That is very bad, and a grown-up must give you a shot of special medicine to help. Some people carry the medicine with them all the time, just in case.
Alligator\n\nAn alligator is a big animal with a long body and a tough, scaly skin. It has a wide, flat head, a round nose, short strong legs, and a long, powerful tail. It lives in warm, wet places like swamps, rivers, and lakes. It can swim very well and often floats with just its eyes and nose above the water. It eats fish, turtles, and other small animals. You can see it in some zoos or in the wild in parts of America and China.
Allosaurus\n\nAllosaurus was a big dinosaur that ate meat. It had a long tail, strong back legs, and short arms with three fingers. It lived a very long time ago, before people were on Earth. You can see its bones in some museums. It used its sharp teeth to bite other dinosaurs.
Alloy\n\nAn alloy is a mix of two or more things, and one of them is always a metal. It is made by melting the metal and mixing in something else, then letting it cool into a hard new thing. The new thing is often stronger or better than the metal alone. You can find alloys in many places, like in the shiny steel of a spoon or the brass of a door handle. Steel is an alloy made from iron, and it is used to build cars and bridges. Bronze is another alloy, made from copper and tin, and people long ago used it to make tools.
Almond\n\nAn almond is a small, hard nut that people eat. It grows on a tree that is not too tall. The tree has pretty white or light pink flowers. The nut hides inside a hard shell. You can buy almonds with the shell on or with the shell taken off. People eat almonds as a snack or put them in food like cookies and cereal.
Almost\n\nAlmost means very close to something, but not all the way. It is like when you have nine out of ten blocks—you almost have ten. You can use it for time, like when it is almost bedtime. You can use it for size, like when a puppy is almost as big as its mom. It helps you say something is nearly done or nearly there.
Aloe\n\nAloe is a plant with thick, pointy green leaves. It grows in warm, dry places. Inside each leaf is a clear, cool gel. People put the gel on their skin when it feels dry or sore. It helps the skin feel soft and calm. You can find aloe in a small pot at home or in a garden.
Alone\n\nAlone means you are by yourself. It is when no one else is with you. You might feel alone in your room at night. Sometimes being alone is quiet and nice. Other times it can feel a little sad. A friend or a hug can help when you do not want to be alone.
Along\n\nAlong means next to or beside something. When you walk along a path, you stay on the path as you go. You can also hold hands and walk along with a friend. It tells us that two things are moving or sitting side by side.
Aloud\n\nAloud means you say words so other people can hear them. It is the opposite of thinking words inside your head. When you read a book aloud, you say the story with your voice. In class, the teacher may ask you to say your name aloud. Saying something aloud helps others know what you are thinking.
Alpaca\n\nAn alpaca is a fluffy animal that looks a bit like a small llama. It has a long neck, big soft eyes, and a coat of thick, warm hair. You can find it on farms, often with sheep or goats. People keep it for its soft wool, which is made into warm clothes like sweaters and scarves. The wool is cut off once a year, like a haircut. It eats grass and hay, and it can live for many years. A baby alpaca stays inside its mom for almost a whole year before it is born.
Alpha Centauri\n\nAlpha Centauri is a group of three stars in the night sky. It looks like one bright dot, but it is really three stars close together. You can see it only if you live far down south, where the sky is different. It is the closest star group to our Sun. One of its stars has a planet going around it. Some day, people want to send a space ship to visit it.
Alphabet\n\nAn alphabet is a set of letters we use to write words. It has a fixed order, like A, B, C, D. You see it in books, on signs, and on your toys. We use it to read and write stories and names. The English alphabet has 26 letters, from A to Z.
Alpine skiing\n\nAlpine skiing is a fun winter sport. It uses two long, flat sticks called skis that you strap to your feet. You stand on a snowy hill and slide down very fast. The person who gets to the bottom first wins the race. You can try it at a snowy mountain place called a ski resort. Many people do it just for fun, and some do it in big races like the Olympics.
Alps\n\nThe Alps are very tall hills that touch the sky. They are in Europe, a big land far away. It has white snow on top all year long. People go there to slide on snow with long flat shoes called skis. In summer, they walk up the green parts and see pretty flowers and small lakes. Some animals like furry goats and big birds live there.
Already\n\nAlready means something happened before now. It is a word we use when a thing is done and we do not need to do it again. For example, if you ate your snack, you can say, "I already ate." It tells your mom or dad that the job is finished. You might hear it when someone asks about a chore, like putting toys away.
Also\n\nAlso is a word we use to add something more. It is a small word that comes in the middle of a sentence. You hear it when someone says, "I like apples. I also like bananas." It helps us say there is one more thing. When you tell a story, you can use it to add a new part. It is like saying "and" but a little different.
Altar\n\nAn altar is a special table used in a church or a holy place. It is often made of wood or stone and stands at the front. People put candles, flowers, or a cross on it. A priest or a leader stands near it to pray and share stories. You might see one when you visit a big church with your family.
Alternative medicine\n\nAlternative medicine is a way some people try to feel better. It is not the same as going to a regular doctor. It can be things like tiny needles, special back pushes, or sweet water pills. Some people use it together with a doctor's help. But it does not fix sickness the way real medicine does. Real medicine is what your doctor gives you and is tested to work.
Alternative rock\n\nAlternative rock is a kind of loud, fun music. It uses guitars, drums, and singing. People play it in bands with friends. You can hear it on the radio or at a big show. Some bands that play it are Nirvana and Coldplay. It makes you want to jump and dance.
Altruism\n\nAltruism is caring about other people and wanting to help them. It means you do something nice for someone else without thinking about what you will get back. You might share your snack with a friend who has none. You might help your little brother pick up his toys. You might give a hug to someone who feels sad. When you do these things, you are being kind and thinking about how the other person feels. It is the opposite of being selfish.
Always\n\nAlways means every time, with no stops. It is like the sun coming up each morning—it happens again and again. You can use it to say something never changes, like "I always brush my teeth before bed." It is a word that tells about things that keep going on and on.
Am\n\nAm is a short word we use to talk about ourselves. It tells what I am doing or how I am feeling right now. You say it with the word I, like "I am happy" or "I am running." It helps people know about you.
Amaranth\n\nAmaranth is a plant with colorful leaves and flowers. It can be red, purple, or gold. Some people grow it in gardens to look pretty. In other places, people eat its leaves like spinach. They also use its tiny seeds to make food like porridge. You might see it in a park or a friend's yard.
Amaterasu mikami\n\nAmaterasu mikami is a sun goddess from old Japanese stories. She is a bright and warm lady who brings light to the world. In the stories, she lives high up in the sky. Long ago, she got sad and hid in a dark cave, so the whole world became dark. Other gods made her laugh and come out, and the light came back. People in Japan still visit a special place called Ise to think of her.
Amateur radio\n\nAmateur radio is a fun way to talk to people far away using a special box. It looks like a radio with buttons and a big stick on top. People use it at home or in a club room. They talk with their voice or send beeps that spell out words. In an emergency when phones do not work, it can call for help. You need a special paper called a license to use it.
Amaze\n\nAmaze is a big, happy feeling you get when something is very, very good or hard to believe. It makes your eyes open wide and your mouth smile. You feel it when you see a magic trick, a huge rainbow, or a puppy doing a funny dance. It is like a surprise that fills your heart with joy.
Amazing\n\nAmazing is a word we use when something is very, very good or hard to believe. It is a feeling you get when you see a big rainbow or a magic trick. You might say "That is amazing!" when your friend does something great. It can also mean something is so big or so pretty that it makes you stop and stare. When you see fireworks light up the night sky, that is amazing.
Amazon\n\nAmazon is a very big forest with many trees. It is so big that it covers parts of many countries. Many animals live there, like monkeys, birds, and big cats. The weather is hot and it rains a lot. People also call it a rainforest. Some people live there too, in small villages by the river.
Amazon rainforest\n\nThe Amazon rainforest is a huge, warm, wet forest. It is the biggest rainforest on Earth. It has many tall trees that stay green all year. The forest is in South America, near a very long river called the Amazon. It is home to more animals and plants than any other place. You can find colorful birds, monkeys, frogs, and big cats there. The trees make a lot of the air we breathe. People are cutting down parts of the forest, and that hurts the animals and the air.
Amazon River\n\nThe Amazon River is a very big river in South America. It starts in tall mountains and flows all the way to the big ocean. It carries more water than any other river in the world. The water is often brown and muddy. Many fish, birds, and animals live in and around it. Big boats can travel on it like a road. There are no bridges across most of it because it flows through a huge forest with few roads. People use small boats or ferries to cross it.
Amazons\n\nAmazons are warrior women from old Greek stories. They are strong and brave, and they fight with bows and arrows. In the stories, they live far away near a big sea. They ride horses and are very good at it. Some people think the stories came from real women fighters long ago.
Amber\n\nAmber is a hard, shiny stone that comes from very old tree sap. It is often yellow, orange, or brown, and it feels smooth and warm when you hold it. People find it buried in the ground or washed up on sandy beaches near the sea. It is used to make pretty things like necklaces and bracelets. Sometimes, tiny bugs or leaves got stuck in the sticky sap long ago, and you can still see them inside it today.
Ambulance\n\nAn ambulance is a special car that helps sick or hurt people. It is big and white with bright red and blue lights on top. It also has a loud siren that goes wee-oo-wee-oo. You can see it on the road when it rushes to help someone. Inside, it has a bed and tools to take care of people. The helpers inside are called paramedics. They know how to fix boo-boos and keep people safe until they get to the hospital. If you ever need help, a grown-up can call 911 and an ambulance will come fast.
America\n\nAmerica is a big country where many people live. It has tall buildings in cities and wide open fields with farms. You can find it on a map across the ocean. People there speak English and eat foods like hamburgers and apple pie. A flag with stars and stripes stands for America.
American\n\nAmerican means something or someone from the United States. It is a big country with many people, cities, and farms. You can find Americans in all fifty states, like Texas or New York. They speak English, eat foods like hamburgers and apple pie, and celebrate the Fourth of July with fireworks. An American flag has red and white stripes and fifty white stars on a blue square.
American bison\n\nAn American bison is a big, hairy animal that looks like a cow. It has a large head, short curved horns, and a thick brown coat. The fur on its front is long and shaggy. It lives on flat, open land with grass, like a prairie. It eats grass and other plants. A long time ago, many bison walked all over the land, but people hunted too many. Now, it lives in a few parks and safe places. It is a strong animal that can be seen in pictures on some flags and coins.
American football\n\nAmerican football is a game played by two teams. It uses a ball that is not round—it has two pointy ends. The game happens on a big green field with lines on it. Players wear a hard hat called a helmet to keep their heads safe. One team tries to carry the ball to the other team's end of the field to score points. You might see it on TV on a Sunday, with lots of people cheering.
American Museum of Natural History\n\nThe American Museum of Natural History is a big building full of science things. It is in New York City, in a park. Inside, there are many rooms with old bones, stuffed animals, and shiny rocks. People go there to look and learn. Kids can see a giant blue whale hanging from the ceiling. Scientists work there and study animals, stars, and people from long ago.
American Revolution\n\nThe American Revolution was a big fight a long time ago. It happened when people in America did not want a faraway king to tell them what to do. They wanted to make their own rules. Many people fought with guns and cannons. After many years, they won and made a new country called the United States. Now, every year, people watch fireworks and wave flags to remember it.
American robin\n\nAn American robin is a bird with a bright red-orange chest. It has a round body, long legs, a long tail, and a yellow beak. You can see it in gardens, parks, and yards all over North America. It hops on the grass to find worms and bugs to eat. It also eats berries from bushes. In spring, it builds a cup-shaped nest out of grass and mud. The eggs inside are a pretty blue color.
Americas\n\nThe Americas are two big pieces of land. One is North America and one is South America. They are on the other side of the big water from Europe and Asia. Many people live there and speak different words. Some parts are hot and some are cold. You can find tall mountains, long rivers, and big forests there. A long time ago, people from far away came in big boats and found this land.
Amman\n\nAmman is a big city. It is the most important city in the country of Jordan. It sits on many hills and has lots of buildings. Many people live there, and many visitors come to see it. It has old parts and new parts. It is a place where people work, learn, and shop.
Ammunition\n\nAmmunition is the stuff that goes inside a gun to make it shoot. It has a hard outside case and a soft tip. You find it in places where soldiers or police keep their tools. When a person pulls the trigger, it flies out very fast. A bullet is one kind of ammunition that you might see in a toy gun or a movie.
Amnesia\n\nAmnesia is when a person cannot remember things. It can make someone forget what happened a long time ago or just a moment ago. Sometimes it happens if the brain gets hurt or sick. Other times, a very scary or sad thing can make a person forget. Some people forget for a little while, and some forget for a long time. A doctor can help the brain get better, but there is no special pill for it. If you hit your head very hard, you might forget what happened right before.
Among\n\nAmong means in the middle of a group. It is a word we use when something is with other things. You might find a red ball among many blue balls. A cat can hide among the tall grass. When you play with friends, you are among them.
Amount\n\nAn amount is how much of something there is. It tells you if you have a little or a lot. You can see an amount when you count your toys or when you pour milk into a cup. If you have three cookies, the amount is three. If your cup is full, the amount of milk is big. People use amounts every day to share things fairly.
Amphibian\n\nAn amphibian is a small animal that can live in water and on land. It has smooth, wet skin and four legs. You can find it near ponds, rivers, or wet forests. It starts life as a tiny egg in the water, then grows into a swimming baby with a tail. Later, it changes into an adult with legs and lungs. A frog is one kind of amphibian you might see hopping near a pond.
Amplifier\n\nAn amplifier is a box that makes music or sounds louder. It has buttons and knobs on the front. You can find it near a TV, a radio, or a music player. When a guitar or a singer plugs into it, the sound comes out big and strong through a speaker. Some amplifiers are small and sit on a desk, and some are big and stand on the floor. At a concert, you see big amplifiers so everyone can hear the music.
Amsterdam\n\nAmsterdam is a big city in a country called the Netherlands. It has many canals, which are long strips of water that go through the streets. People ride boats on the canals to get around. The city is very old and has many tall, narrow houses that stand close together. You can find many people from all over the world living there. It is a busy place with lots of bikes, shops, and parks.
Amun\n\nAmun is a very old god from stories in Egypt. He was a god of wind and making things grow. People thought he was the king of all gods. They built a big house for him called a temple. Later, people said he was also the sun god Ra, so they called him Amun-Ra. He was so strong that people said he made the whole world. In old pictures, he sits on a chair with two tall feathers on his head.
An\n\nAn is a small word we use before words that start with a, e, i, o, or u. It means one thing, but not a special one. You see it in books and hear it when people talk. For example, you might say "an apple" or "an egg." It helps the sentence sound smooth and easy to say.
Ana\n\nAna is a name for a girl. She is a person, just like you. You might meet an Ana at school or at the park. She can be a friend who likes to play and share toys. Sometimes Ana has long hair or short hair, and she smiles a lot.
Analysis\n\nAnalysis is when you look at something very carefully to understand it better. It is like being a detective with your eyes and brain. You can do it with a toy to see how it works, or with a story to find out why a character is sad. Grown-ups use it at work to solve problems. When you break a big thing into small pieces and think about each piece, that is analysis.
Analytical\n\nAnalytical means looking at things very carefully to understand them better. It is like when you take apart a toy to see all the little pieces inside. People use it when they want to solve a puzzle or find out why something happened. A detective is analytical when she looks for clues. You are analytical when you sort your blocks by color and shape.
Analytical Chemistry\n\nAnalytical Chemistry is a way to look at stuff and find out what it is made of. It uses tools like scales, lights, and special cups. People do it in labs with white coats. It helps make sure water is clean and food is safe. A doctor might use it to check if you are healthy.
Anarchism\n\nAnarchism is a way of thinking about how people can live together. It says that no one person or group should be the boss of everyone else. People who believe in anarchism think that we can share, help each other, and make rules together without a big leader. They want a world where everyone is free and kind to one another.
Anatomy\n\nAnatomy is learning about the body. It looks at what is inside and outside of people and animals. It shows where things like muscles, bones, and the heart sit in the body. A person who learns about anatomy is called an anatomist. They study how the body is put together. For example, the skeleton is all the hard bones that hold the body up. The muscles help the body move. The heart pumps blood all around. Anatomy helps doctors know how the body works.
Anchovy\n\nAn anchovy is a tiny fish that lives in the big, salty ocean. It has a long, thin body that shines green and silver. A shiny stripe runs along its side. It swims in big groups called schools, and you can find it in many seas around the world. It eats tiny plants and animals that float in the water. People catch it to eat, and it tastes very salty and strong. You might see it on top of a pizza or in a small can at the store.
Ancient\n\nAncient means something is very, very old. It is from a time long before your mom and dad were born. You can find ancient things like big stone buildings or old pots in a museum. People dig them up from the ground to learn about how people lived long ago. An ancient story might be about kings and queens from a faraway time.
Ancient Celtic religion\n\nAncient Celtic religion was a way of believing in many gods and spirits. It was followed by people called the Celts in Europe a long, long time ago. They did not write down their beliefs, so we learn about it from old things they left in the ground. It had special wise people called druids who led prayers and ceremonies. They met in quiet places like forests or near water. They gave gifts to the gods, like shiny things or food. Over time, new ideas came and the old ways changed, but some stories still live on today.
Ancient Egypt\n\nAncient Egypt was a place where people lived a long, long time ago. It was near a big river called the Nile. The river gave water and soft, dark dirt for growing food like wheat. People wrote with small pictures called signs. They built huge stone houses for their kings, who were called pharaohs. A pharaoh was like a king, and people thought he was very special. They also made big pointy buildings called pyramids. You can still see pyramids in pictures of Egypt today.
Ancient Greece\n\nAncient Greece was a place where people lived a long, long time ago. It was near a big blue sea. The people spoke the same language and told the same stories about gods. They lived in small cities, each with its own rules. Some cities had a king, and some let the people choose. They built tall white buildings with big stone sticks. They also made pretty pots and stone people. You can still see old broken parts of their buildings today.
Ancient Greek philosophy\n\nAncient Greek philosophy is a way of thinking that started long ago in a place called Greece. It asks big questions about the world, like what is good, what is real, and how people should live. Some of the first thinkers were Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. They talked and wrote about these ideas. Their thoughts helped shape how people think even today.
Ancient history\n\nAncient history is the story of people who lived a long, long time ago. It starts when people first learned to write, more than five thousand years ago. It ends when a new time called the Middle Ages began. We learn about it by looking at old things left behind, like clay pots, stone tools, and metal swords. Some people long ago wrote down what happened, and we can still read their words today. But many old papers and wood things are gone now because they broke or got lost. So we only know a small part of the whole story.
Ancient Olympic Games\n\nThe Ancient Olympic Games were a big sports party a long, long time ago. It happened in a place called Greece. People from different towns came together to run, jump, and race. The winner got a crown made of olive leaves. It was a way to say thank you to a god named Zeus. Today we have new Olympic Games, but the first ones were very old.
Ancient philosophy\n\nAncient philosophy is old thinking about big questions. It started long ago in places like Greece, Rome, China, and India. People asked things like: what is good? what is real? They talked and wrote down their ideas. Some of those old ideas are still read in schools today.
Ancient Rome\n\nAncient Rome was a big city and a strong group of people from long, long ago. It had tall stone buildings, big roads, and a special kind of writing. You can find its old broken buildings in Italy today. The people there made rules and built things that we still use now. They also told stories about many gods, like Jupiter and Mars.
And\n\nAnd is a small word we use to put things together. It helps us say two things in one sentence, like "I have a cat and a dog." You see it in books, on signs, and when people talk. It makes a list, like "I like red, blue, and green." When you say "Mom and Dad," it joins two people you love.
Andean\n\nAndean means something that comes from the Andes mountains. The Andes are very tall mountains in South America. They stretch for a long way, like a giant rocky snake. You can find animals like the llama there, with its soft, woolly fur. People who live in the Andes wear bright, colorful clothes to stay warm. The air is thin and cold up high, and you can see snow on the peaks even when it is sunny.
Andean Civilizations\n\nAndean Civilizations were groups of people who lived long ago in the Andes mountains. They built homes and towns high up where the air is thin. They grew food like corn and potatoes on steep hillsides. They made colorful cloth and pots from clay. Some of their old stone cities still stand in the mountains today.
Andes\n\nThe Andes are very tall hills that go on and on. They are made of rock and have snow on top. You can find them in South America, near the sea. Many animals live there, like big birds and furry llamas. People climb the hills and use llamas to carry things.
Andorra\n\nAndorra is a tiny country high up in the mountains. It sits between two big countries, Spain and France. It has tall snowy peaks and green valleys. Many people visit it to ski and play in the snow. It has no king or queen of its own. Instead, two special people from Spain and France help take care of it together. The people there speak a language called Catalan. They also use Spanish and French. Andorra is very small, but it is a happy and peaceful place.
Andromeda galaxy\n\nThe Andromeda galaxy is a big group of stars very far away in the sky. It looks like a soft, fuzzy patch of light. You can see it on a dark night without a telescope if the sky is clear. It is the closest big star group to our own star group, the Milky Way. A long time ago, people thought it was a small cloud. Now we know it has many, many stars, even more than our own star group.
Anesthesia\n\nAnesthesia is a special kind of sleep that doctors give you. It makes your body feel no pain when you need an operation. A doctor gives it to you with a mask or a tiny needle. While you are under it, you do not feel, see, or hear anything. When you wake up, the operation is all done. It helps you stay safe and still so the doctor can fix what is wrong.
Angel\n\nAn angel is a kind of good helper from God. It looks like a person with wings, and sometimes it shines with light. You can find stories about angels in holy books like the Bible. An angel brings messages from God to people, and it can protect them or help them when they are in trouble. For example, an angel told Mary she would have a baby named Jesus. Some angels have special jobs, like watching over children or singing songs to God.
Angel Falls\n\nAngel Falls is a very tall waterfall. It is the tallest waterfall in the whole world. It falls from a big flat mountain in a country called Venezuela. The water drops so far that it turns into a soft mist before it hits the ground. A man named Jimmy Angel flew a plane near it a long time ago, and that is how it got its name.
Anger\n\nAnger is a big, hot feeling you get when something is not fair or when you cannot have what you want. It can make your face feel hot and your heart beat fast. Sometimes it makes you want to yell or stomp your feet. You might see anger when a friend takes your toy or when you have to stop playing. It is okay to feel angry, but it is not okay to hit or break things. Taking a deep breath can help the angry feeling go away.
Angkor Wat\n\nAngkor Wat is a very big, old temple. It is made of stone and has tall towers that look like pine cones. You can find it in a country called Cambodia, in a place with many trees. Long ago, people built it to pray to a god, and later it became a place for a different kind of prayer. It is the biggest building for prayer in the whole world. Many people visit it today to see the old stone walls and carvings.
Angle\n\nAn angle is the space where two straight lines meet. It looks like a corner. You can see angles in a door that is open a little, or in the corner of a book. When you open a pair of scissors, the two blades make an angle. A bigger opening makes a bigger angle, and a smaller opening makes a smaller one.
Anglerfish\n\nAn anglerfish is a fish that lives deep in the ocean. It has a big head and a wide mouth with sharp teeth. On top of its head, it has a little stick that glows in the dark. It wiggles the glowing stick to look like a tiny snack. When a small fish comes close, it opens its big mouth and eats it. It is dark brown and can be as small as your hand. Some people eat anglerfish for food.
Angling\n\nAngling is a way to catch fish. It uses a hook tied to a long string. The string is on a stick called a rod. The rod has a wheel that lets the string go out and come back. People put a worm or a shiny fake bug on the hook to make fish want to bite. Many people do angling for fun near a lake or a river. They often let the fish go back into the water after they catch it.
Angola\n\nAngola is a big country in Africa. It has land next to the ocean, and its capital city is called Luanda. Many people live there, and they speak Portuguese. The weather is warm, with a dry time and a rainy time. Angola has many different parts called provinces. Long ago, people from Portugal came and stayed for many years. Now Angola makes its own choices.
Angry\n\nAngry is a big, hot feeling you get when something is not fair or when you do not get what you want. It can make your face turn red and your hands feel tight. You might feel it when a friend takes your toy or when you have to stop playing. It is okay to feel angry, but it is not okay to hit or yell. You can take a deep breath or count to ten to help the feeling go away.
Animal\n\nAn animal is a living thing that can move around. It has a body made of many tiny parts called cells. It needs food, water, and air to stay alive. Some animals live on land, like dogs and cats. Some live in water, like fish. Some animals eat plants, some eat meat, and some eat both. A cow is an animal that eats grass. A lion is an animal that eats meat. A bear is an animal that eats plants and meat. You can see animals at a farm, in a zoo, or in your own home.
Animal colour\n\nAnimal colour is the way an animal looks on the outside. It can be brown, green, yellow, or many other shades. Some animals have spots or stripes on their fur or skin. Colour helps an animal hide from bigger animals that want to eat it. A green frog sits on a green leaf and is hard to see. A brown rabbit stays still in the dirt and looks like a rock. Some animals use bright colour to scare others away. A butterfly may show big spots that look like eyes. Colour also helps animals find a friend to make babies with. A boy bird may have bright feathers to show a girl bird he is strong. Animal colour is a big part of how they live and stay safe.
Animal husbandry\n\nAnimal husbandry is the way people take care of farm animals. It means giving them food, water, and a safe place to live. People do this to get milk, eggs, meat, and wool from the animals. A cow gives milk, a chicken gives eggs, and a sheep gives soft wool for clothes. Some children learn to care for animals in a group called 4-H. Long ago, families kept just a few animals, but now some farms have many. The animals need good care every day to stay happy and healthy.
Animal welfare\n\nAnimal welfare means making sure animals are happy and healthy. It is about how people take care of animals. It looks at how animals live on farms, in zoos, or at home as pets. It also thinks about how people treat wild animals outside. When a dog has a warm bed and good food, that is good animal welfare.
Animation\n\nAnimation is a way to make pictures move. It is made by putting many pictures together one after another. When you watch them very fast, it looks like the pictures are moving. You can see animation in cartoons on TV or in movies. Some people draw the pictures by hand, and some use a computer to help. A short cartoon is one kind of animation. A long movie like a Disney film is also animation.
Anime\n\nAnime is a kind of cartoon made in Japan. It is drawn by hand or made with computers. You can watch it on TV, on the internet, or in movies. It tells stories about many things like sports, magic, or robots. Some anime comes from Japanese comic books called manga. People all over the world enjoy watching it.
Anise\n\nAnise is a small plant with tiny white flowers. It has seeds that smell and taste a little like black licorice candy. People grow it in warm places near the sea. Cooks use the seeds to make bread, cookies, and sweet drinks taste special. You might find it in a kitchen spice jar or in a holiday cookie.
Ankara\n\nAnkara is a big city in the country of Turkey. It is the capital, which means it is the most important city for the country's leaders. It has many tall buildings, wide streets, and parks. People live and work there, and many visitors come to see a big white building on a hill called Anitkabir. Long ago, many different groups ruled the city, but now it is a busy, modern place.
Ankle\n\nAn ankle is the part of your leg where your foot joins your leg. It lets you move your foot up and down and side to side. You can feel it as a bump on each side of your foot. It helps you walk, run, and jump without falling. When you twist it too much, it can hurt and swell up. You wear socks and shoes over it to keep it safe.
Ann\n\nAnn is a name for a girl. It is short and easy to say. You might know a friend, a teacher, or a storybook person named Ann. She can be kind and funny, just like any friend you play with. Sometimes the name is spelled with an 'e' at the end, like Anne.
Anna\n\nAnna is a name for a girl. It is a short and sweet name. You might meet an Anna at school or at the park. She could be your friend or a girl in a storybook. Many people like the name because it is easy to say and sounds happy.
Another\n\nAnother is a word that means one more thing. It is like when you have a cookie and you want a second cookie. You can say, "I want another cookie." You use it when you already have one and you ask for one more. It can be a toy, a book, or a turn on the swing.
Answer\n\nAn answer is what you say when someone asks you a question. It is the words that come after a question mark. You give an answer when a teacher calls your name in class. At home, you might answer when Mom asks what you want for lunch. An answer can be one word, like yes or no, or many words that tell a story.
Ant\n\nAn ant is a tiny bug that lives with many other ants. It has six legs, a thin middle part, and two long feelers on its head. You can find ants almost everywhere on Earth, like in gardens, parks, and even on sidewalks. They work together in big groups to find food and build homes under the ground. Some ants can carry things that are much heavier than they are. You might see a line of ants walking to a piece of food on the ground.
Antarctic Circle\n\nThe Antarctic Circle is an invisible line around the bottom of the Earth. It is very cold there, with lots of ice and snow. In summer, the sun stays up all day and night. In winter, it stays dark all day and night. The land inside it is called Antarctica. Scientists go there to study, but no one lives there all the time.
Antarctic Peninsula\n\nThe Antarctic Peninsula is a long, skinny piece of land in a very cold place called Antarctica. It sticks out from the big ice land like a finger pointing north. It is covered in snow and ice, and big walls of ice called glaciers slide slowly into the sea. Scientists live there in small houses to study the weather and animals. It is one of the fastest warming spots on Earth, so the ice is melting more each year.
Antarctica\n\nAntarctica is a big, cold land at the bottom of the world. It is covered in thick ice that is very, very old. Almost no people live there all the time, but some scientists stay in small stations to study the ice and animals. You can find penguins, seals, and whales in the water around it. It is the coldest place on Earth, and the wind blows very hard. Even though it is full of ice, it is also a desert because it gets very little rain or snow.
Antbird\n\nAn antbird is a small bird that lives in warm forests. It has round wings, strong legs, and a short, hooked beak. Its feathers are mostly gray, brown, or white. It eats bugs and other tiny animals. Some antbirds follow big groups of ants to catch bugs that run away from the ants. It builds a nest and lays two eggs. Both the mom and dad bird take care of the babies.
Anteater\n\nAn anteater is an animal with a long nose and a long, sticky tongue. It has thick fur and a big, bushy tail. It lives in warm places with lots of trees and dirt. It uses its sharp claws to open ant homes and then licks up the ants with its tongue. Some anteaters walk on the ground, and some live in trees. You might see one in a picture book about jungle animals.
Antelope\n\nAn antelope is an animal that looks like a deer. It has four long legs, a smooth brown coat, and two horns on its head. It lives in big open fields in Africa and parts of Asia. It eats grass and runs very fast. A group of antelopes is called a herd. Some kinds can jump very high, even over a tall grown-up.
Antenna\n\nAn antenna is a metal stick that catches invisible waves from the air. It is long and thin, like a pencil or a ruler. You can find it on top of a car, on a roof, or on a phone. It helps a radio play music and a TV show pictures. Without it, a phone cannot call a friend far away.
Anthropology\n\nAnthropology is the study of people. It looks at how people live, what they do, and how they talk. It asks where people came from long ago. It also looks at how people make art, music, and food. You can see it in books about kids in faraway lands.
Antibiotic\n\nAn antibiotic is a kind of medicine. It helps your body fight tiny germs that make you sick. When you have a sore throat or an earache, a doctor may give you this medicine. It comes as a pink liquid, a pill, or a shot. It works only on germs, not on colds from a virus. You must take all of it, even when you feel better.
Antibiotics\n\nAntibiotics are special medicines that help your body fight bad germs called bacteria. They come as a pill, a liquid, or a shot from a doctor. When you have a sore throat or an ear ache caused by bacteria, a doctor may give you this medicine. It works by stopping the bacteria from growing or by killing them. You must take all of it, even after you feel better, so the bad germs do not come back stronger.
Antigua and Barbuda\n\nAntigua and Barbuda is a country made of two big islands and a few tiny ones. It sits in the warm blue sea called the Caribbean. The biggest town is St. John's, and many people live there. Long ago, people from far away came to live on the islands. Today, many visitors come to see the soft sandy beaches and swim in the clear water. The islands grow sweet pineapples and other good food. People there speak English and a fun local way of talking.
Antoine Lavoisier\n\nAntoine Lavoisier was a man who studied what things are made of. He lived a long time ago in a country called France. He found out that air has different parts, and one part helps fire burn. He also showed that water is made of two things stuck together. People call him the father of chemistry because he helped us understand the world better.
Anubis\n\nAnubis is a god from old Egypt. He has the body of a man and the head of a dog. Long ago, people believed he helped take care of dead bodies and wrap them in cloth. He also helped decide if a person was good after they died. You can see pictures of him in old books and on walls inside big stone pyramids.
Anxiety\n\nAnxiety is a big, worried feeling inside your body. It can make your heart beat fast, your hands shake, or your tummy hurt. Sometimes it happens when you are scared or when something new is about to happen. Many people feel it before a test or a loud storm. It usually goes away after a little while. If it stays for a long time, a doctor can help.
Any\n\nAny is a word we use when we talk about one thing, but we do not say which one. It can be a toy, a color, or a snack. You might hear someone say, "Pick any book you like." That means you can choose the red one or the blue one. It is a small word that gives you a big choice.
Anymore\n\nAnymore means not now. It is a word we use when something stops. Before, you did it. Now, you do not do it anymore. For example, a baby drinks from a bottle. Then the baby grows big. The baby does not drink from a bottle anymore.
Anyone\n\nAnyone means any person at all. It is a word we use when we talk about people, but we do not say who. You can use it when you ask a question, like "Is anyone home?" It can also be used when you say something is for all people, like "Anyone can play." It does not pick one person; it means every person is okay.
Anything\n\nAnything means any thing at all. It can be something you can see, like a toy or a tree. It can also be something you cannot see, like a sound or a feeling. When someone says "you can pick anything," it means you can choose whatever you want. It is a word that leaves the choice wide open.
Anyway\n\nAnyway is a word we use when we want to go back to the main thing we were talking about. It is like saying, "Let's not think about that other part now." You might hear a grown-up say it when a story gets a little mixed up. It helps everyone get back on track.
Anywhere\n\nAnywhere means in any place at all. It is a word you use when the place does not matter. You can sit anywhere on the rug during story time. A lost toy could be anywhere in the house. When you are happy, you feel like you can play anywhere.
Apart\n\nApart means two things are not together. It is when something is far away or not touching. You can see it when you put your hands far from each other. When friends are apart, they miss each other. A puzzle piece that is apart does not fit.
Apartment\n\nAn apartment is a home inside a big building. It has rooms like a bedroom, a kitchen, and a bathroom. Many apartments are in tall buildings in the city. People pay money each month to live there. Sometimes a building has a pool or a place to wash clothes. You might see one when you visit a friend who lives in the city.
Ape\n\nAn ape is a big animal with no tail. It has long arms and a wide chest. It lives in warm forests in Africa and Asia. It swings from tree to tree using its strong arms. It eats fruit, nuts, leaves, and sometimes small bugs. A monkey has a tail, but an ape never does.
Apennine Mountains\n\nThe Apennine Mountains are a long line of tall hills in Italy. They stretch from the top of the country down to the bottom. The highest part is called Corno Grande, and it is very, very tall. Many trees and animals live on these mountains. People like to walk and ski there. The mountains have three big parts: the north part, the middle part, and the south part.
Aphid\n\nAn aphid is a tiny bug that lives on plants. It has a soft body and six little legs. You can find it on the leaves and stems of garden plants. It drinks the juice from the plant, which can make the plant sick. A ladybug is a friend that eats aphids and helps the garden.
Aphrodite\n\nAphrodite is a goddess from old Greek stories. She is the goddess of love and beauty. People said she was the most beautiful of all the goddesses. She lived on a tall mountain called Olympus with other gods. Her husband was Hephaestus, the god of fire. She had a magic belt that made people love her. You can see pictures of her in old art, often with a dove or a rose.
Apollo\n\nApollo is a god from old Greek stories. He is the son of Zeus, the king of the gods, and has a twin sister named Artemis. He is shown as a young man with a crown of leaves, holding a small harp called a lyre. Apollo is the god of the sun, music, and healing. People long ago went to his special place called Delphi to ask for help and to hear what would happen in the future. He is also known for being good with a bow and arrow.
Apology\n\nAn apology is when you say you are sorry. It is a way to tell someone you feel bad about something you did. You might give an apology after you break a toy or say a mean word. It helps the other person feel better. A hug can also be part of an apology.
App\n\nAn app is a small helper that lives inside a phone or a tablet. It looks like a little picture on the screen. You tap the picture to open it. It can do many things, like play music, show a game, or let you talk to Grandma on a video call. You might see an app for drawing or for watching funny cat videos.
Appalachian Mountains\n\nThe Appalachian Mountains are a long line of old, round hills in North America. They stretch from Canada down to the middle of the United States. The hills are not very tall, and they are covered with green trees. Many animals like bears, deer, and birds live there. People like to walk on a long path called a trail that goes over the hills. In the fall, the leaves turn bright red, orange, and yellow. Long ago, the hills were much taller, but rain and wind wore them down over a very long time.
Appear\n\nTo appear means to show up or come into sight. When something appears, you can see it where you could not see it before. A rainbow can appear in the sky after rain. A friend can appear from behind a door. When the sun comes up in the morning, it appears over the trees.
Applause\n\nApplause is the sound people make by clapping their hands together. It is a happy noise you hear when someone does something good. You can find it at shows, games, or after a song. People use it to say "good job" or "we like that." When you see a play and everyone claps at the end, that is applause.
Apple\n\nAn apple is a round fruit that grows on a tree. It has smooth skin that can be red, green, or yellow. Inside, it has white, juicy flesh and a small star of seeds in the middle. You can find apples in a store or at a farm. People eat them raw as a snack, or cook them to make pie and sauce. They also make sweet juice and a drink called cider from apples. An apple is crunchy and can taste sweet or a little sour.
Apricot\n\nAn apricot is a small, soft fruit. It is round and has a fuzzy skin that feels like velvet. The outside is orange or yellow, and inside there is sweet, juicy flesh. In the middle, it has a hard pit that you do not eat. Apricots grow on trees in warm places. You can eat them fresh, or they can be dried and put in snacks. They are good for your body because they have things that help you stay healthy.
April\n\nApril is the fourth month of the year. It has 30 days. In many places, it is a spring month. Flowers start to open, and trees get new green leaves. Sometimes it rains a lot in April. People might see little animals like bunnies and baby birds. Some kids play outside more because the days get warmer.
Apron\n\nAn apron is a piece of cloth you wear over your clothes. It covers the front of your body and ties at the back. You see it in the kitchen when someone is cooking. It keeps food and water off your shirt and pants. A baker might wear one to stay clean while making cookies.
Aquaculture\n\nAquaculture is like a farm, but in water. It is a way people grow fish, shrimp, and other sea animals for food. Instead of catching them in the wild, people raise them in big ponds, tanks, or cages in the sea. It gives us fish like salmon and catfish to eat. Many places around the world do this, and it helps feed lots of people.
Aquarium\n\nAn aquarium is a glass box filled with water where fish and other water animals live. It can be small enough to sit on a table, or it can be a big building with huge tanks. You can see colorful fish, snails, and sometimes turtles inside it. People feed the animals and keep the water clean so they stay healthy. Many children have a small aquarium at home with a goldfish or a guppy. A big public aquarium is a fun place to visit and watch sharks or jellyfish swim.
Aqueduct\n\nAn aqueduct is a long path that carries water from one place to another. It can look like a big stone bridge with many arches. You can find it in old cities where people built it to bring fresh water. It helps water move across valleys or hills so towns have water to drink and wash. A long time ago, people used it to fill fountains and baths. Today, some places still use it to water farms.
Arab people\n\nArab people are a group of people who come from a big hot place called the Arabian Peninsula. They speak a language called Arabic. Many of them live in countries in West Asia and North Africa. They have a long history with stories from a very long time ago. Some Arab people follow the religion of Islam, and some follow other religions like Christianity. They have their own music, food, and ways of dressing. You might see Arab people in your town or on TV.
Arabia\n\nArabia is a big, hot place with lots of sand. It has wide deserts and a bright sun. Camels walk there and carry people. Some people live in tents and move with their animals. Long ago, traders crossed it with spices and cloth.
Arabian Desert\n\nThe Arabian Desert is a big, hot, sandy place. It has lots of sand and not much water. Very few plants grow there because it is so dry. Some animals like gazelles and lizards live in parts of it. It is in a part of the world called Asia. Many people who live near it speak a language called Arabic.
Arabian horse\n\nAn Arabian horse is a kind of horse with a special look. It has a triangle-shaped head, big eyes, and a small nose. Its neck is long and curved, and it carries its tail up high. It can be brown, gray, chestnut, black, or white. It was first raised by people in the hot desert long ago. Today, you can see it in many places around the world. It runs in races and jumps in shows. Some people ride it on trails just for fun. It is strong and can go a long way without getting tired.
Arabian Peninsula\n\nThe Arabian Peninsula is a big piece of land with water on three sides. It is very hot and dry, with lots of sand and desert. You can find it on a map near Africa and Asia. Many people live in two big places on it, and some parts have oil deep under the ground. Camels and date trees grow well in this hot, sandy land.
Arabian Sea\n\nThe Arabian Sea is a very big body of water. It is part of the big Indian Ocean. It touches many countries, like India on one side and Oman on the other. The water is warm and blue. Big boats sail on it to carry things from one place to another. Many fish and other sea animals live in it. People who live near it catch fish to eat. Some people also swim and play in the water at the beach.
Arabic\n\nArabic is a way people talk and write. It has pretty, curvy letters that look like art. Many people use it in countries with lots of sand and sun. You might see it in a book or on a sign. Some kids learn it to talk to their family.
Arabic Numerals\n\nArabic numerals are the number signs we use every day. They look like 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. You see them on clocks, in books, and on your toys. We use them to count things, like how many cookies are on a plate. When you write the number five, you are using an Arabic numeral.
Arabic Script\n\nArabic script is a way of writing words. It has pretty, curvy lines and dots. You can see it in books, on signs, and in many places where people speak Arabic. It is used to write down stories, names, and messages. Some children learn to read and write it in school.
Arachnid\n\nAn arachnid is a tiny animal with eight legs. It has a body split into two main parts: a front part with the head and a back part like a tummy. It does not have wings or feelers like bugs do. You can find arachnids in many places, like gardens, under rocks, or in quiet corners of a house. A spider is one kind of arachnid that spins a sticky web to catch flies. A scorpion is another kind with a long tail that can sting. Some arachnids are so small you need a big glass to see them.
Aral Sea\n\nThe Aral Sea was once a very big lake. It sat between two lands called Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. Over many years, it got smaller and smaller. Most of the water went away because people took water from the rivers that fed it. Now it is mostly dry, sandy land. The water that is left is dirty and not safe. People are trying to save a small part of it by building a wall to hold water in.
Arapaima\n\nAn arapaima is a very big fish that lives in rivers. It has a long, round body and big scales that look like armor. It lives in warm rivers in South America. It eats other fish, bugs, and fruits that fall in the water. It can jump out of the water when it feels scared.
Arc de Triomphe\n\nThe Arc de Triomphe is a big stone arch in Paris. It stands in the middle of a round place where many roads meet. It is very tall and wide, and you can climb many steps to the top. From up there, you can see the whole city. Under the arch, there is a special grave for a soldier whose name nobody knows. People built it a long time ago to remember brave fighters. Many visitors come to look at it and take pictures.
Arcade game\n\nAn arcade game is a big machine you play with coins. It has a screen with bright colors and buttons or a stick to move things. You can find it in places like pizza shops or game rooms. You put a coin in, and it lets you play a fun game. One kind is a pinball machine, where a little ball bounces and you hit it with flippers. Another kind is a video game, where you control a character on the screen. A game like Tiny Wings on a phone is also called an arcade game sometimes.
Arch\n\nAn arch is a curved opening in a wall or a bridge. It looks like a rainbow made of stone or brick. You can see it over doors, windows, and big bridges. The top stone, called the keystone, holds all the other stones in place so it does not fall down. Some arches are made by nature when wind and water wear away rock over a long time.
Archaea\n\nArchaea is a tiny living thing. It is so small you need a big tool to see it. It lives in very hot water, very salty water, or deep in the ground. It helps break down old stuff and makes the earth healthy. Some archaea live inside animals and help them digest food.
Archaeologist\n\nAn archaeologist is a person who digs up old things from the ground. He looks for pots, tools, and bones that people left behind long ago. He works outside in the dirt with small brushes and shovels. He puts the old things in a museum so everyone can see them. You might see an archaeologist in a book or a show about dinosaurs or mummies.
Archaeology\n\nArchaeology is the study of how people lived a long, long time ago. It looks at old things that people left behind, like coins, tools, and broken pots. People who do this work are called archaeologists. They dig in the ground to find these old things. Sometimes they find them under water, like old ships. They also find them in ice when it melts. After they find old things, they clean them and put them in a museum. Then we can go see them and learn about the past.
Archaeopteryx\n\nArchaeopteryx is a very old animal that could fly. It lived a long, long time ago, even before people were on Earth. It had feathers and wings like a bird, but it also had a mouth with teeth, claws on its hands, and a long tail. Its body was small, and it looked like a mix of a bird and a lizard. People found its bones in rocks in Germany. Today, you can see its bones in a museum. It helps us learn how birds came to be.
Archery\n\nArchery is a game where you use a bow to send an arrow flying. A bow is a long, bent stick with a tight string. An arrow is a thin stick with a sharp tip at one end and feathers at the other. You pull the string back and let go, and the arrow zooms through the air. Long ago, people used archery to hunt animals for food. Today, it is a sport. You can see archery at a fair or on TV when people try to hit a round target.
Archimedes' screw\n\nArchimedes' screw is a tool that moves water up high. It has a long, twisty part inside a round tube. You put the bottom end in water and turn it. As it turns, water climbs up the twisty part and comes out at the top. People use it to bring water to dry fields so plants can grow. A long time ago, a smart man named Archimedes wrote about it. Today, you can still see it in some places where farmers need water.
Archipelago\n\nAn archipelago is a group of many islands close together. It looks like dots of land in a big blue sea. You can find it in the ocean, far from the main land. Some archipelagos are made by hot rocks under the water that push up to make islands. People live on some of these islands and use boats to go from one to another. Japan is a country that is an archipelago, with many islands where people live.
Architecture\n\nArchitecture is the way people plan and make buildings and other big things. It is like drawing a picture of a house before you build it with blocks. You can see it in houses, schools, tall towers, and bridges. An architect is a person who thinks up the plan and helps make it real. They use art to make it look nice and math to make it strong. Long ago, people built simple huts from wood and stone. Today, some buildings are so tall they touch the clouds. A skyscraper is a very tall building with many floors. The Eiffel Tower is a famous tall thing made of metal. Next time you see a big building, think about the plan someone made for it.
Archive\n\nAn archive is a special place that keeps old papers and things. It holds letters, maps, and pictures from long ago. People put these things in boxes to keep them safe. An archive is not like a library with books you can borrow. The things inside are one of a kind. A person who takes care of an archive is called an archivist.
Arctic\n\nThe Arctic is the cold place around the top of the Earth. It is mostly a big ocean covered with ice. In summer, the sun never sets for many days. The ground there is called tundra. It is a flat land with no big trees. Small flowers and moss can grow on it. Under the ground is hard ice that never melts. Many animals live in the Arctic. The polar bear is a big white bear that swims in the cold water. It hunts seals on the ice. The Arctic fox has thick white fur to stay warm. It follows bears to eat leftover food. Some people live in the Arctic too. They have been there for a very long time. They know how to stay warm and find food in the cold.
Arctic Circle\n\nThe Arctic Circle is an invisible line that goes around the top of the Earth. It is very cold there. In winter, the sun does not come up for a long time, so it stays dark. In summer, the sun does not go down, so it stays light all day and all night. The North Pole is in the middle of this circle. Some countries like Norway, Sweden, Finland, Russia, the United States, Canada, and Greenland have land inside it. The line moves a tiny bit every year because the Earth tilts a little.
Arctic Ocean\n\nThe Arctic Ocean is a big, cold sea at the very top of the world. It is covered with thick ice for most of the year. In winter, almost all of it is ice, and in summer, much of it still has ice. It is the smallest of all the oceans. Many animals live there, like big white bears called polar bears, walruses with long teeth, and huge whales. The ice is slowly melting because the Earth is getting warmer. People use strong ships to break the ice and travel through it.
Arcturus\n\nArcturus is a big, bright star in the night sky. It looks like a tiny, shiny dot that glows with a warm orange or red color. You can find it high up in the sky on a clear night, in a group of stars shaped like a kite. It is one of the brightest stars we can see from Earth. Long ago, people used stars like it to find their way home.
Are\n\nAre is a small piece of land. It is used to measure how big a piece of ground is. Farmers use it to talk about their fields. You cannot hold it in your hand because it is a way of counting space, not a thing you can touch.
Area\n\nArea is how much flat space a shape covers. It is like counting how many small squares fit inside a shape. You find it on paper, on a floor, or on a table top. People use it to know how much paint to buy for a wall or how much grass seed for a yard. A big square has more area than a small square.
Argentina\n\nArgentina is a big country in South America. It has tall mountains on one side and a big ocean on the other. Many people there speak Spanish. They love to play soccer and eat beef and pasta. The capital city is Buenos Aires, and it is very big.
Argument\n\nAn argument is when you tell someone why you think something is true. It is a reason you give to show your idea is right. You might say, "We should play outside because the sun is warm." That is an argument. A good argument has clear reasons that make sense. A bad argument has reasons that do not fit or are not true. People use arguments to share what they think and to try to agree on things.
Arithmetic\n\nArithmetic is about working with numbers. It is a part of math that you learn in school. It has four main ways to play with numbers: adding, taking away, times-ing, and sharing. Adding is putting numbers together. Taking away is finding how many are left. Times-ing is adding a number many times. Sharing is splitting a number into equal parts. You use arithmetic when you count your toys or share cookies with a friend. Many grown-ups use it at their jobs, like when a builder measures wood or a nurse counts medicine.
Arm\n\nAn arm is a long part of your body. It starts at your shoulder, near your neck, and goes down to your hand. You have two arms, one on each side. It has parts like the hand, wrist, elbow, and shoulder. You use it to pick up toys, hug your mom, and eat food. The hand at the end can hold things tight. Some animals like monkeys also use their arms to swing in trees.
Armadillo\n\nAn armadillo is a small animal with a hard shell on its back. It looks like it wears a suit of armor made of tough skin. It has a long tail and short legs with sharp claws. You can find it in warm places like South America and Central America. It digs in the dirt to find bugs and worms to eat. When it gets scared, it rolls up into a tight ball so nothing can hurt it. Some armadillos have four babies at the same time, and the babies all look exactly the same.
Armenia\n\nArmenia is a country far away. It has no sea next to it. Many people there follow a very old church. They have their own letters for writing. The biggest city is called Yerevan. Long ago, people made pretty stone buildings there. Today, families cook flat bread and tell old stories.
Armour\n\nArmour is a strong covering that keeps people and things safe from hits. It can be hard like a shell or soft like a thick coat. Long ago, people wore armour made of animal skin or metal. Today, police officers wear a special vest that stops bullets. Big army cars called tanks have very thick armour all around them. Even some dogs and horses wear armour to stay safe when they help police. In sports like hockey, players wear armour on their legs and arms so they do not get hurt when they fall.
Armstrong\n\nArmstrong is a last name that some people have. It is made from two words: arm and strong. A long time ago, it may have been a name for someone with very strong arms. Today, you might meet a friend or a teacher with this name. One famous person with this name walked on the moon.
Army\n\nAn army is a big group of people who protect a country on land. They wear the same clothes, called a uniform, and carry tools like guns. You can see them in parades or on the news. They work together to keep people safe. A person in the army is called a soldier.
Around\n\nAround means in a circle or on all sides. When you spin, the world looks like it is moving around you. You can walk around a big tree to see what is on the other side. At the park, you might run around the playground. It is a word that tells where something is or how it moves.
Arrive\n\nArrive means you get to a place. It is when you stop moving and you are there. You can arrive at home after a walk. You can arrive at school in the morning. When you arrive, someone might say hello or give you a hug.
Arrow\n\nAn arrow is a long, thin stick with a sharp point at one end. It has feathers at the other end to help it fly straight. You can find arrows in a bow and arrow set, which people use for target games. When you pull back the bowstring and let go, it flies through the air very fast. You might see an arrow in a picture book about knights or in a toy set at the park.
Art\n\nArt is making something that looks nice or feels special. It can be a drawing, a painting, a song, or a dance. You can find it at home on the fridge, in a book, or in a big building called a museum. People make it to share a happy or sad feeling. A child might draw a rainbow with crayons—that is art.
Art Deco\n\nArt Deco is a way of making buildings and pretty things. It uses straight lines, sharp corners, and shapes like zigzags and sunbursts. You can see it on tall buildings in big cities, like the Chrysler Building in New York. It also shows up on old movie theaters, lamps, and jewelry. It makes things look shiny, strong, and new.
Artemis\n\nArtemis is a goddess from old Greek stories. She is the goddess of the moon, hunting, and wild animals. She carries a bow and arrow, and she wears a short dress for running in the woods. She lives on a tall mountain with other gods. She has a twin brother named Apollo. In one story, a hunter saw her taking a bath, and she turned him into a deer. People long ago told many tales about her.
Artery\n\nAn artery is a tube inside your body that carries blood away from your heart. It has strong, stretchy walls made of three layers. You cannot see it because it is deep under your skin. Every time your heart beats, it stretches to let blood flow through. It brings fresh air from your lungs to all parts of your body. The biggest one is called the aorta, and it runs from your chest down to your belly.
Arthritis\n\nArthritis is when a part of your body called a joint gets sore and stiff. It can make it hard to move your fingers, knees, or hips. Some people feel it more in the morning or when it is cold. Doctors help by giving medicine and telling you to move gently. A grandma or grandpa might have it and use a warm cloth to feel better.
Arthropod\n\nAn arthropod is a small animal with a hard shell on the outside. It has many legs that bend at the joints. You can find it in gardens, under rocks, or in the water. It crawls or swims to move around. A spider is one kind you might see at home.
Artichoke\n\nAn artichoke is a plant that people eat. It looks like a big green flower bud with many thick, pointy leaves. You find it in the store near other green foods. People cook it in hot water or on a grill. Then they pull off a leaf, dip the soft bottom part in something yummy, and eat it. The very best part is the soft middle, called the heart. It tastes a little like a nut.
Article\n\nAn article is a piece of writing that tells you about something. It can be in a book, a magazine, or on a computer screen. It has words and sometimes pictures. People read it to learn new things or to enjoy a story. You might see an article about animals, toys, or places far away.
Artificial\n\nArtificial means something is made by people, not by nature. It looks or acts like a real thing, but a person built it. You can find artificial things all around you, like a toy car or a plastic flower. People use artificial things when the real thing is hard to get or costs too much. For example, a doll is an artificial baby that a child can play with.
Artificial intelligence\n\nArtificial intelligence is a computer program that can learn and think a little like a person. It lives inside computers and phones. It can hear your voice and talk back, like when you ask a phone a question. It can also look at pictures and tell what is in them. Some cars use it to drive without a person. One example is a talking helper on a phone that answers when you say "hello".
Artificial island\n\nAn artificial island is a piece of land in the water that people build. It is not made by nature like a normal island. People use big machines and rocks to make it. You can find it in the sea or in a big lake. Some are small, and some are very big. People may build houses, parks, or an airport on it. One example is an island with a big wheel you can ride, like in a picture book.
Artificial selection\n\nArtificial selection is when people choose which plants or animals get to have babies. It is a way to make sure the babies have a special look or skill. A farmer may pick the biggest, sweetest apples from a tree and plant their seeds. Over time, the new apple trees grow more big, sweet apples. People also use it with dogs. A person may want a dog with short legs, so they let two short-legged dogs have puppies. The puppies often have short legs too. This is how we got many kinds of dogs, like the small, fluffy ones or the big, strong ones. It is different from nature choosing, where animals and plants change slowly on their own to live better in the wild.
Artillery\n\nArtillery is a big, heavy gun that shoots far away. It has a long tube and sits on wheels or a stand. Soldiers use it in a war to hit things that are very far. It can shoot a big metal ball or a rocket that flies through the air. A person called a spotter helps aim it because the target is too far to see. The loud boom can shake the ground.
Artist\n\nAn artist is a person who makes art. He draws, paints, or builds things that are nice to look at. He can also sing, dance, or play music. You can find his work in a museum, a book, or on a stage. He uses colors, shapes, and sounds to show how he feels. A child who draws a picture for mom is a little artist too.
Arts\n\nArts are things people make to share feelings, stories, and ideas. They can be pictures you see, songs you hear, or dances you watch. Some arts stay still, like a painting on a wall or a statue in a park. Other arts move and happen in front of you, like a play or a song. You can find arts in a museum, a book, or even on a stage. When you draw with crayons or sing a song, you are making art too.
As\n\nAs is a very small word we use when we talk. It helps us say how something is done or when two things happen at the same time. You might hear it in a sentence like "I am as tall as my friend" or "She sings as she plays." It is not a thing you can touch or see, but it helps our words fit together.
Ash tree\n\nAn ash tree is a tall tree with a strong trunk and many branches. It has light green leaves that are made of many small parts. The leaves come out late in spring and fall off early in fall. Its buds are dark and look a little like a soft black hat. People use its wood to make bats, bows, and tool handles. It also burns well in a fire. A long time ago, people told stories about a giant ash tree that held up the sky. Some bugs and sickness can hurt it, so people try to keep it safe.
Ashoka\n\nAshoka was a king who lived a long, long time ago in a land called India. He was a strong leader who helped many people. He cared about being kind and fair. He put up big stone signs with words that told everyone to be good to each other. He also sent helpers to faraway places to share his ideas about peace. Today, people still remember him as a good king who wanted everyone to live happily.
Asia\n\nAsia is a very big piece of land on Earth. It is the biggest of all the big land pieces. Many, many people live there. It has tall mountains, long rivers, and big empty deserts. Some places are very cold, and some are very hot. Many old stories and ways of life started in Asia. You can find countries like China, India, and Japan there.
Asian Games\n\nThe Asian Games are a big sports party for countries in Asia. It happens every four years, just like a birthday that comes around again. Many different sports are played, like running, swimming, and soccer. People from many places come to join and try their best. It has a summer time and a winter time, so you can see games in the snow too. You might see it on TV with bright flags and happy crowds.
Ask\n\nAsk means you say a question to find out something. When you ask, you use words like who, what, where, when, or why. You can ask a grown-up for help, or ask a friend to play. Asking is how you learn new things every day.
Asleep\n\nAsleep means your body is resting and your eyes are closed. When you are asleep, you do not hear or see things around you. You lie down in a bed or a cozy spot to fall asleep. Your body grows and gets strong while you are asleep. You might dream about fun things like flying or playing. When you wake up, you feel full of energy again.
Asmara\n\nAsmara is a big city in a country called Eritrea. It is the most important city there. Many people live in it, and they make clothes, food, and shoes. A long time ago, four small towns joined together to make it. Later, people from Italy built many houses that look like the ones in Italy. Some of those old houses are still there today. It is a special place that the whole world thinks is important to keep safe.
Asparagus\n\nAsparagus is a green plant that people eat as a vegetable. It grows as a tall, thin stalk with a soft, pointy tip at the top. You can find it in a garden or at the grocery store in spring. People cook it in hot water or on a pan and eat it with butter or salt. It makes your pee smell a little funny after you eat it.
Assembly line\n\nAn assembly line is a way to make things in a big building called a factory. It has a long moving belt. A thing being made moves on the belt from one spot to the next. At each spot, a person or a machine adds one part. By the end, the thing is all put together. This makes many things very fast. Cars are often made this way. A long time ago, a man named Henry Ford used an assembly line to make cars that many people could buy.
Association\n\nAn association is a group of people who come together for the same reason. It can be a club at school, like a reading club. It can also be a group of grown-ups who help others, like a group that plants trees. People in an association meet, talk, and do things together.
Association football\n\nAssociation football is a game where two teams try to kick a ball into a goal. It is also called soccer. Each team has 11 players, and one player stands in front of the goal to stop the ball with their hands. The other players use their feet to move the ball. The team that kicks the ball into the goal more times wins. A game has two parts with a break in the middle. People play it in parks, schools, and big stadiums all over the world. Many kids play it with friends after school.
Asteroid\n\nAn asteroid is a big rock that moves around the Sun. It is smaller than a planet, but some are as wide as a city. Most of them are in a belt between Mars and Jupiter. A few come close to Earth. Long ago, a big one may have hit Earth and made the dinosaurs go away. Scientists study them to learn about space.
Asteroid belt\n\nThe asteroid belt is a big ring of rocks in space. It sits between Mars and Jupiter, two of our planets. The rocks in it are small and big, like pebbles and giant stones. Some are as tiny as dust, and some are as big as a mountain. The biggest one is called Ceres. The belt is very far from Earth, so we cannot see it without a big telescope. It is like a road made of rocks that goes all around the Sun.
Asthma\n\nAsthma is a sickness that makes it hard to breathe. It happens inside the lungs, where the air tubes get narrow and puffy. A person with asthma may make a whistling sound when breathing, cough a lot, or feel tight in the chest. It can start when someone is a child. Some things like dust, pets, or smoke can make it worse. There is no cure, but medicine helps. A doctor can show how to use a special puffer to feel better.
Astronaut\n\nAn astronaut is a person who travels into space. He wears a big white suit with a round helmet to keep him safe. He rides in a rocket ship that goes very fast and high up above the clouds. In space, he floats because there is no gravity to pull him down. He can visit a big house in the sky called a space station. From there, he can look down and see the whole Earth, which looks like a big blue and green ball.
Astronomical object\n\nAn astronomical object is a thing that floats in space. It can be big like a star or small like a rock. You can see some of them in the night sky, like the moon and tiny dots of light. The sun is a star, and it gives us light and heat. Earth is a planet, and it is where we live. A moon goes around a planet, and we see our moon at night.
Astronomy\n\nAstronomy is the study of things in the sky. It looks at stars, the moon, the sun, and faraway worlds. People use big tubes called telescopes to see these things better. Long ago, people watched the sky with just their eyes. They made up stories about the shapes they saw. Today, we know the sun is a star and the earth moves around it. Astronomy helps us learn what is out there in space.
At\n\nAt is a tiny word we use to say where something is or when something happens. It looks like two letters, A and T, put together. You see it in books, on signs, and in messages. We use it to tell a place, like "I am at the park," or a time, like "We eat at noon." It helps us share where we are and when we do things.
Atacama Desert\n\nThe Atacama Desert is a very dry place in the country of Chile. It is so dry that almost no rain falls there for many, many years. Some parts of it have not seen rain for over 400 years. It is not a hot desert like others; the air can be cool, and sometimes fog rolls in from the big ocean nearby. People who live there use big plastic sheets to catch tiny water drops from the fog. The water drips into pans so they can drink it and water their plants. The ground has a lot of salt and special rocks. Long ago, people found very old mummies buried in the dry sand.
Atheism\n\nAtheism is an idea. It means a person does not believe in any god. Some people believe in one god, and some believe in many gods. An atheist does not believe in any of them. It is not the same as not knowing. A person can say, "I do not know if a god is real," and that is different. Many atheists look at the world and see no proof of a god. They think nature is all there is. In some places, many people are atheists. In other places, very few are. Long ago, saying you were an atheist could get you in big trouble. Today, in many countries, people are free to be atheists or to believe in a god. It is a choice about what you think is true.
Athena\n\nAthena is a goddess from old Greek stories. She is the goddess of being smart, making things, and fighting in a clever way. She wears a helmet and holds a round shield. An owl sits near her because the owl is her special sign. People in Greece built a big, pretty house for her on a tall hill. That house is called the Parthenon. Athena gave people the first olive tree. The tree gave them food, oil, and wood. She helps heroes in stories when they need a good plan.
Athens\n\nAthens is a big, old city. It is the most important city in the country of Greece. It has many old stone buildings from a very long time ago. One famous building is the Parthenon, which was a special house for a goddess. Many people live in Athens today, and it has buses, trains, and a big boat stop called a port. Long ago, people in Athens started the first way of voting, which we call democracy.
Athlete\n\nAn athlete is a person who plays a sport. He runs, jumps, throws, or swims very well. He trains hard every day to get strong and fast. You can see an athlete at a big field, a pool, or a gym. He wears special clothes and shoes for his sport. Many children watch athletes on TV during big games like the Olympics.
Athletics\n\nAthletics is a big word for running, jumping, and throwing games. It is a sport where people try to go fast, jump high, or throw far. You can see it at school on sports day or on TV when big games are on. Kids do athletics when they race their friends or play catch with a ball. It makes your body strong and your heart happy.
Atlanta\n\nAtlanta is a big city in the state of Georgia. It has tall buildings, busy streets, and many people. You can find it near a river called the Chattahoochee. It is known for a very busy airport where many planes take off and land. A famous drink called Coca-Cola comes from there. Long ago, it was burned down but was built again, like a bird that rises from fire.
Atlantic\n\nThe Atlantic is a very big ocean. It is a huge body of salty water. You can find it between America and Europe and Africa. Many big ships sail on it to carry things from one land to another. It is home to fish, whales, and dolphins. When you go to a beach on the east side of America, the water you see is part of the Atlantic.
Atlantic Ocean\n\nThe Atlantic Ocean is a very big body of salty water. It is the second biggest ocean on Earth. It touches the east side of North and South America, and the west side of Europe and Africa. Big ships cross it to carry people and things from one land to another. The water is deep and blue, and many fish live in it. Some parts are warm, and some parts are cold. People like to swim and play at the beach next to it.
Atlantic Slave Trade\n\nThe Atlantic Slave Trade was a sad time long ago when people were taken from their homes in Africa. They were put on big boats and sent far across the ocean. They had to work very hard on farms with no pay and no freedom. Many families were broken apart. It was wrong and hurt many people.
Atlantis\n\nAtlantis is a made-up island from very old stories. It was a big piece of land in the ocean. People lived there long, long ago. The story says it sank down under the water and was gone. Some people think a real island that had a big fire mountain might be the start of the story. Today, you can see Atlantis in cartoons, books, and movies about underwater places.
Atlas\n\nAn atlas is a big book full of maps. It has many pages that show different parts of the world. You can find it in a library or at school. People use it to learn where countries, oceans, and mountains are. A map inside it might show your own town with little lines for streets.
Atlas Mountains\n\nThe Atlas Mountains are a long line of tall hills in Africa. They stretch across three countries near the top of the continent. The highest part is a big rock peak that touches the sky. Snow can fall on the top even when it is hot below. The mountains keep the dry desert sand away from the green land near the sea. People live in small villages on the sides and grow food on the slopes. Some people there tell old stories about a giant who held up the sky.
Atmosphere\n\nAn atmosphere is a blanket of air around a big thing in space, like a planet. It is made of tiny bits of gas you cannot see. It wraps around the planet and stays there because the planet pulls on it. The air we breathe is part of Earth's atmosphere. It keeps us warm and safe from the sun's strong rays. When you look up at the sky, you are looking through the atmosphere.
Atmosphere of Earth\n\nThe atmosphere of Earth is a big blanket of air all around our planet. It is made of tiny things called gases that we cannot see. The air has a gas called oxygen that we breathe in. It also has a gas called nitrogen, which is the most. The atmosphere keeps us safe from the sun's strong rays. It also holds heat so nights are not too cold. You can feel it when the wind blows on your face.
Atmospheric pressure\n\nAtmospheric pressure is the push of air all around us. It is the weight of the big blanket of air above the Earth. You cannot see it, but it is always there. When the air is thick and heavy, the push is strong. When the air is thin and light, the push is weak. High up on a tall mountain, it is weaker because there is less air above. A tool called a barometer can tell us how strong the push is. People who study weather use it to know if a storm is coming.
Atmospheric science\n\nAtmospheric science is the study of the air around our Earth. It looks at how the air moves, how it gets hot or cold, and how it makes clouds and rain. People who do this job use big balloons, flying machines, and special tools to watch the sky. They tell us what the weather will be like tomorrow. You see their work when you watch the weather news on TV.
Atoll\n\nAn atoll is a ring of tiny islands in the ocean. It looks like a doughnut made of sand and trees. You find it in warm, blue water far away. Coral, a tiny sea animal, builds the ring over a very long time. Inside the ring, the water is calm and shallow. People can live on the bigger islands and fish in the quiet water.
Atom\n\nAn atom is a tiny, tiny piece that makes up everything around us. It is so small you cannot see it with your eyes. Inside it, there is a heavy middle part and light bits that move around it. Everything you touch—like water, air, and your toys—is made of many atoms. When atoms join together, they make new things, like how two small bits join with one other bit to make a drop of water.
Attention\n\nAttention is when you look at one thing and think about only that thing. It is like a flashlight in your brain that shines on what you pick. You use it when you listen to a story or watch a bug crawl on a leaf. It helps you learn new things and remember them. Sometimes it is hard to keep it on one thing for a long time, and that is okay.
Attic\n\nAn attic is a room at the very top of a house, just under the roof. It often has a small window and a wooden floor. People use it to store old boxes, toys, and clothes they do not need every day. Sometimes you can find a dusty old book or a funny hat up there. It can be warm in summer and cold in winter.
Aubergine\n\nAn aubergine is a purple fruit that people cook like a vegetable. It has a smooth, shiny skin and a soft inside with tiny seeds. You can find it at the grocery store near other vegetables. People cut it up and cook it in soups, stews, or on the stove. It tastes mild and soaks up flavors from other foods.
Audience\n\nAn audience is a group of people who watch or listen to the same thing together. It can be big or small. You find an audience at a play, a movie, a concert, or a sports game. They clap and cheer when they like what they see. Sometimes they are quiet and just watch. A live audience is right there in the same room as the show.
Auditory system\n\nThe auditory system is the part of your body that lets you hear. It uses your two ears to catch sounds all around you. The outside part of the ear is the soft, curvy skin you can see on the side of your head. Inside, a thin, tight skin called the eardrum shakes when sound hits it. Tiny bones behind the eardrum pass the shake to a snail-shaped part deep inside. That part turns the shake into a message that goes to your brain. Your brain then tells you what the sound is, like a dog barking or a song playing. The ear also helps you keep your balance so you do not fall down.
August\n\nAugust is a month in the year. It comes after July and before September. It is a warm month in many places, and children do not go to school. You can play outside, swim, and eat ice cream. Many families go on a trip in August. The days are long and sunny.
Auk\n\nAn auk is a bird that lives near the cold ocean. It has a thick body, small wings, and short legs. It is black on the back and white on the belly, like a penguin. It can fly and swim very well. It stays far from land for a long time, then comes to land to make a nest and raise babies.
Aunt\n\nAn aunt is the sister of your mom or your dad. She is part of your family. Sometimes she is also the wife of your uncle. She may live near you or far away. She might give you hugs, read you stories, or bring you small gifts. You can call her "Aunt" and then her name, like Aunt Mary.
Aurochs\n\nAn aurochs was a big, wild cow. It lived a long time ago in Europe and other places. It had long, curved horns that looked like the shape of a lyre. It was much bigger than the cows we see on farms today. The boy aurochs was black with a light stripe down its back, and the girl aurochs was a red-brown color. It was very strong and could be angry. Long ago, people thought it was brave to hunt one. Now there are no more aurochs left anywhere on Earth.
Aurora\n\nAn aurora is a pretty light show in the night sky. It looks like long, soft curtains of green, pink, or purple light that move slowly. You can see it only in very cold places near the North Pole or the South Pole. It happens when tiny bits from the sun bump into the air high above us. The bump makes the air glow, like a night-light in the sky. People also call it the northern lights or southern lights.
Australia\n\nAustralia is a big island country far away. It is very hot and dry in the middle, so most people live near the sea. You can find animals there that live nowhere else, like the kangaroo and the koala. The kangaroo hops on two strong back legs and carries its baby in a pouch. The koala sits in trees and eats leaves. Long ago, the first people walked to Australia and took care of the land. Today, big cities like Sydney have tall buildings and busy streets. Many children in Australia like to play outside and go to the beach.
Australian rules football\n\nAustralian rules football is a game played with a ball. It is played on a big oval field with four tall poles at each end. Players kick the ball to score points. A kick between the two middle poles is a goal and gives six points. A kick between the outer poles gives one point. Players can also bounce the ball and hit it with their hand to pass it. The game has four parts called quarters. Many people in Australia love to watch it.
Austria\n\nAustria is a country in the middle of Europe. It has tall, snowy mountains called the Alps in the west and flatter land in the east. Many people there speak German. The biggest city is Vienna. A long time ago, kings and queens lived there in big palaces. Today, people visit to see the mountains, old buildings, and to eat a thin meat dish called Wiener Schnitzel.
Authoritarianism\n\nAuthoritarianism is a way of running a country. It means one person or a small group makes all the rules. People must follow the rules and cannot say no. They cannot choose their own leaders in a free vote. In some places, a king or a boss who stays for a very long time runs things this way.
Autism\n\nAutism is a way some people's brains work. It is something a person is born with and stays with them their whole life. A person with autism may find it hard to talk to others or make friends. They might like doing the same thing every day and feel upset if things change. They may move their body in the same way over and over, like flapping their hands. Some people with autism are very good at one thing they love, like trains or numbers. You cannot see autism by looking at someone, but you can see it in how they act.
Auto racing\n\nAuto racing is a sport where people drive cars very fast. It has many kinds of races. In one kind, the cars are low and have big wings that push them down. These races happen in many countries. Another kind uses cars that look like normal cars but go super fast on round tracks. Some races last a whole day, and drivers take turns. You might see auto racing on TV with colorful cars zooming around a track.
Autocracy\n\nAutocracy is a way of running a country. In it, one person has all the power. This person makes every big choice, and no one else can say no. Long ago, many places were run this way, like the old Roman Empire. Today, some countries still have one ruler who tells everyone what to do. It is not like a democracy, where many people vote and share the power.
Automation\n\nAutomation is when a machine does a job all by itself. It does not need a person to push buttons or pull levers every time. You can find it in many places, like a robot arm that paints cars in a big factory. It helps make things the same way every time, so toys and snacks look just right. It also keeps people safe by doing heavy or hot work for them. A washing machine at home is a simple kind of automation. You put clothes in, press start, and it washes them without your help.
Automobile\n\nAn automobile is a machine with four wheels that moves on roads. It has a metal body, seats inside, and a wheel for turning. You see it on streets and in parking lots. People use it to go to school, the store, or faraway places. It goes fast and carries a whole family. Some automobiles use gas to run, and some use electricity from a big battery.
Automotive industry\n\nThe automotive industry is all about making cars and trucks. It is the work of many people who think up new cars, build them in big factories, and then sell them to families. You see the things it makes every day on the road. A car has four wheels, doors, and seats inside. A truck can carry big, heavy things in its back. Long ago, the first cars were slow and looked like a box on wheels. Today, cars come in many colors and shapes. Some are small and some are big. Many families have one car or more to go to the store or to visit Grandma.
Autumn\n\nAutumn is a time of year after summer and before winter. It is also called fall. In many places, the air gets cool and the wind blows. Leaves on trees turn yellow, red, or brown and then fall to the ground. Farmers pick apples, pumpkins, and other food from their fields. Many animals look for food to save for the cold winter. Children go back to school when autumn starts. You can see piles of leaves on the grass and hear them crunch under your feet.
Avalanche\n\nAn avalanche is a big pile of snow that slides down a mountain very fast. It looks like a white river of snow, and it can carry rocks and trees with it. You find it on tall mountains where lots of snow has fallen. It can be dangerous for people who ski or play in the snow. If you see one, try to grab a strong tree or a big rock to stay safe.
Aviation\n\nAviation is flying in the sky using a big machine with wings. It is a way people travel far away very fast. You see it at an airport, where planes take off and land. A pilot sits in the front and steers the plane. Many people ride inside to visit new places. A long time ago, people made kites and balloons to go up high. Today, planes carry people and boxes all over the world.
Avicenna\n\nAvicenna was a very smart man who lived a long, long time ago. He thought a lot about how the body works and how to help sick people feel better. He wrote many big books that doctors read for hundreds of years. He also thought about stars, numbers, and how people think. Today, people remember him as a great teacher and healer.
Avocado\n\nAn avocado is a fruit that is shaped like a pear. It has a dark green skin that can be bumpy or smooth. Inside, the soft part is light green and feels creamy. You can find it in warm places like Mexico. People cut it open and eat the inside. It is used to make a dip called guacamole. Many people like to put it on toast or in salads. It has healthy fat that is good for your body.
Avoid\n\nTo avoid something means to stay away from it. It is like when you see a big puddle on the sidewalk and you walk around it so your shoes do not get wet. You can also avoid a loud noise by covering your ears. When you do not want to get hurt, you avoid things that are sharp or hot. It helps keep you safe and happy.
Awake\n\nAwake means your eyes are open and you are not sleeping. It is the time when you can play, eat, and talk. In the morning, the sun comes up and you wake up. You feel awake and ready for the day. At night, you get sleepy and go to bed. When you are awake, you can see, hear, and move your body.
Away\n\nAway means not here. When you go away, you leave a place. If your ball rolls away, it moves far from you. You might go away on a trip with your family. When someone is away, you cannot see them right now. You can wave and say bye-bye when a friend goes away.
Awesome\n\nAwesome means something is really, really good. It is a word you say when you see a big, bright rainbow or a fast red fire truck. You can feel awesome when you learn to ride your bike without help. A friend who shares a toy is awesome too. It is a happy word for things that make you smile big.
Axe\n\nAn axe is a tool for cutting wood. It has a sharp metal part and a long handle. You can find it in a shed or with a firefighter. People use it to chop big logs into smaller pieces. A woodcutter swings it to split a tree trunk.
Axle\n\nAn axle is a long, straight bar that helps wheels turn. It goes through the middle of a wheel. You can find it on cars, bikes, and toy wagons. When the wheel spins, it spins around the axle. On a car, it holds the wheels in place and carries the heavy weight of the car. On a bike, you can see a thin metal bar between the two wheels. Without it, the wheels would fall off.
Azerbaijan\n\nAzerbaijan is a country. It sits where Asia and Europe meet. It has big mountains, green fields, and a sea called the Caspian Sea on one side. The main city is Baku. Many people there speak a language also called Azerbaijani. They like to drink black tea and eat a rice dish called plov. They also love music and fast dancing. A special horse from there is called the Karabakh horse. It is one of the oldest kinds of horses in the world.
Aztec\n\nThe Aztec were people who lived a long, long time ago. They built big stone houses and tall step-like towers. They lived in a warm place with many lakes and mountains. They grew corn, beans, and squash to eat. They made colorful clothes and beautiful gold art. Today, you can see old Aztec stones in museums.
Aztecs\n\nThe Aztecs were people who lived a long time ago. They lived in a place that is now called Mexico. They built a big city on an island in a lake. They grew corn, beans, and squash to eat. They made chocolate from cocoa beans, but it was not sweet like today. They played a ball game with a rubber ball and hoops on walls.
Baba Yaga\n\nBaba Yaga is a make-believe old woman from old stories. She looks like a scary, wrinkly lady. She lives in a house that stands on big chicken legs, so it can walk around. Sometimes she flies in a big bowl with a stick that stirs it. In some tales she is mean, but in others she helps people. You might see her in a video game or a cartoon.
Baboon\n\nA baboon is a big monkey. It has a long face, a short tail, and thick fur. It lives in Africa and a place called Arabia. It stays on the ground with many other baboons in a big family. It eats grass, roots, bugs, and small animals. It can also take food from people. Big cats and wild dogs try to catch it, but it makes loud sounds and shows its teeth to scare them away.
Baby\n\nA baby is a very young person. It is smaller than a big kid and cannot walk or talk yet. A baby has soft skin, tiny fingers, and a round head. You can find a baby at home with its mom and dad. It sleeps a lot, drinks milk, and cries when it needs something. A baby grows fast and soon learns to smile and play.
Back\n\nYour back is the part of your body behind you. It goes from your neck down to your bottom. It has a long row of bones in the middle called a spine. You use it to stand up straight, bend over, and pick up toys. When you lie on a bed, your back rests on the soft blanket. Sometimes it can feel sore if you sit too long.
Backgammon\n\nBackgammon is a game for two people. It uses a board with long triangles and small round pieces. Each player rolls two dice to see how many spaces to move. The goal is to move all your pieces around the board and off first. You can find it at home or in a game box. It takes about as long as a short TV show to play one game.
Backpack\n\nA backpack is a bag you wear on your back. It has two straps that go over your shoulders. You can put books, a lunch box, or toys inside it. Many kids take a backpack to school every day. It keeps your hands free while you walk or run.
Backyard\n\nA backyard is an open space behind a house. It has grass, and sometimes flowers or a tree. You can run, play ball, or have a picnic there. Some backyards have a swing set or a sandbox. It is a safe place to play outside with friends or family.
Bacon\n\nBacon is a kind of meat that comes from a pig. It is cut into thin, flat pieces. People cook it in a hot pan until it gets crispy and brown. It smells very strong and tasty when it cooks. Many people eat it for breakfast with eggs. Some people do not eat it because of their family's rules about food.
Bacteria\n\nBacteria are tiny living things so small you need a special tool to see them. It is just one little cell, with no inside parts like our body cells have. It lives almost everywhere—in dirt, in water, on your skin, and inside your tummy. Some kinds help make food like yogurt and cheese. Other kinds can make you sick, but your body fights them. It grows by splitting into two new ones.
Bad\n\nBad means something is not good. It can be a feeling, like when you drop your ice cream. It can be a thing, like a toy that is broken. It can be an action, like hitting a friend. When something is bad, it makes you sad or upset. But sometimes, a bad day can turn into a good day after a hug.
Badge\n\nA badge is a small, flat piece of metal or cloth. It often has a picture, a word, or a shiny star on it. You can pin it on your shirt or jacket. People wear a badge to show they belong to a group, like a scout or a team. A police officer wears a badge to show their job. Sometimes you get a badge for doing something good, like helping in class.
Badly\n\nBadly means doing something in a way that is not good. When you color outside the lines, you color badly. It is the opposite of doing something well. If you feel sick, you might say you feel badly. It tells how an action happens.
Badminton\n\nBadminton is a fun game you play with a racket. It is for two or four people. You hit a small thing called a shuttlecock over a high net. The shuttlecock has feathers on top and a round bottom. You try to make it land on the other side so the other player cannot hit it back. You can play it in a yard, a park, or a big gym. Many people in Asia love to play it.
Baffin Bay\n\nBaffin Bay is a big body of cold water. It sits between a big island and a land called Greenland. It is covered with ice for much of the year, so boats cannot go there easily. Many animals live in and around it, like white whales, seals, and big white bears. Small birds also fly near it in summer and then fly away when it gets very cold.
Bag\n\nA bag is a soft thing that can hold other things. It has an open top and often has handles or straps. You can find bags at home, at school, or at the store. People use a bag to carry toys, books, food, or clothes. A backpack is a kind of bag that you wear on your back.
Baghdad\n\nBaghdad is a big, old city in a country called Iraq. It sits next to a long river named the Tigris. Long ago, it was a place where many people came to learn and share stories. Today, many people live there and call it home.
Bagpipes\n\nBagpipes are a musical instrument. It has a soft bag that holds air. A person blows into a tube to fill the bag, then presses it with an arm. The air comes out through a pipe with holes, and the player covers the holes to make different sounds. It also has long pipes that play one steady note. You can hear it at parades or big outdoor shows. The sound is loud and strong, and people often march while playing it.
Bahrain\n\nBahrain is a small country made of islands. It sits in warm blue water called the Persian Gulf. It has flat land with sand and a few low hills. People find sweet water under the ground and salty water in the sea around it. Long ago, people came to Bahrain for pearls from the ocean. Today, many people work with oil that comes from deep under the ground. A long bridge connects it to a bigger country next door.
Bake\n\nTo bake is to cook food in a hot box called an oven. It uses dry heat to make the food ready to eat. You can bake bread, cookies, and cakes. When you bake, the kitchen smells warm and sweet. Many people bake for birthdays or holidays. A child can help by mixing the soft dough.
Baker\n\nA baker is a person who makes bread, cakes, and cookies. He works in a bakery, which is a shop full of yummy smells. He wears a white hat and a white coat to stay clean. He mixes flour, water, and other things to make dough. Then he puts the dough into a hot oven to bake. You can see a baker early in the morning when he makes fresh bread for the day. Maybe you have eaten a cookie or a cupcake that a baker made.
Bakery\n\nA bakery is a shop where people make and sell bread, cakes, and cookies. It smells warm and sweet inside. Bakers wake up very early to mix flour, water, and other things. They put the dough into a hot oven to bake. You can buy a loaf of bread, a cupcake, or a cookie there. Some bakeries also make pies and pastries. It is a happy place to visit with your family.
Baking\n\nBaking is a way to cook food using an oven. It makes things like bread, cakes, and cookies. You mix flour, water, sugar, and other things into a soft dough. Then you put it in a hot oven to bake. When it comes out, it is warm and yummy. A person who bakes is called a baker. You can buy baked goods at a bakery. Many people bake at home for fun or for a party.
Baku\n\nBaku is a big city by the sea. It is the most important city in a country called Azerbaijan. It has an old part with small streets and a new part with tall buildings. Many people live there. Under the ground near the city, there is a lot of oil. Oil is a black liquid that can make cars and machines go. Baku also has big places where people play soccer and chess.
Balance\n\nBalance is when you can stand or move without falling over. It is like when you walk on a straight line or stand on one foot. You use it when you ride a bike or climb on a playground. Your body has a special part inside your ear that helps you keep balance. You can practice it by walking slowly on a low wall or a beam.
Bald\n\nBald means having no hair on the head. It looks smooth and shiny on top. Some people are bald because they are older, and some are bald when they are young. You might see a bald person at the store or on TV. A bald head can feel warm in the sun, so some people wear a hat.
Bali\n\nBali is a warm island in the country of Indonesia. It has green rice fields, tall hills, and two big fire mountains called volcanoes. Many people visit Bali to see old stone temples and watch bright dances with music and masks. The people there mostly follow a religion called Hindu. They grow rice and make clothes to sell. The biggest town on the island is Denpasar.
Balkan Mountains\n\nThe Balkan Mountains are a long line of tall hills and rocks. They stretch from one country to another in a part of the world called Europe. The tops are often covered with snow in winter. Many trees grow on the sides, and animals like bears and birds live there. People walk up the paths to see the view from the top. Some roads go through low places between the peaks so cars can cross.
Balkans\n\nThe Balkans is a big piece of land in Europe. It has mountains and forests and is next to the sea on three sides. Many different people live there, and they speak different languages and go to different churches. A long time ago, strong fighters called Romans took over the land. Today, many families live in the Balkans, and some of them cook yummy food like flat bread and grilled meat.
Ball\n\nA ball is a round toy or tool. It can be small like a marble or big like a beach ball. Some balls are soft and squishy, and some are hard and bouncy. You can throw it, catch it, kick it, or roll it on the ground. People play many games with a ball, like soccer, basketball, and catch. A ball can be many colors, like red, blue, or yellow. You might have a ball at home or see one at the park.
Ballad\n\nA ballad is a kind of song that tells a story. It is often slow and about love. People sing it with music, like a guitar or piano. You might hear a ballad on the radio when a singer sings about feelings. A long time ago, people wrote ballads on paper to share stories. Today, many bands play ballads that are soft and sweet.
Ballet\n\nBallet is a kind of dancing that tells a story. It uses soft steps, jumps, and turns. Dancers wear special shoes and pretty clothes. They practice for many hours to learn the moves. A teacher called a ballet master helps them. Ballet is done on a big stage with music. You might see it at a theater. One famous ballet is The Nutcracker. It has toy soldiers and a sugar plum fairy.
Ballista\n\nA ballista is a very old tool for throwing big sticks. It looks like a giant bow on a stand. People long ago used it in fights to send heavy spears far away. They pulled back a tight string and let it go to shoot. You might see one in a book about old times.
Balloon\n\nA balloon is a soft, stretchy bag that can get big when you blow air into it. It is made of thin, rubbery stuff that can be many bright colors. You see balloons at birthday parties and fun times. People tie a string to it and let it float, or they hang it on the wall. Some balloons are filled with water, and kids throw them at each other to play and get wet. A big, big balloon called a hot air balloon can carry people up into the sky.
Ballroom dance\n\nBallroom dance is a kind of dancing that two people do together. It is often a man and a woman who hold hands and move around a big room. There are two main types: smooth dances like the waltz, where they glide slowly, and lively Latin dances like the cha-cha, where they shake their hips. You can see it at a party, a wedding, or on a TV show. People also dress up in fancy clothes and compete to see who dances best.
Baltic Sea\n\nThe Baltic Sea is a big body of water in the north of Europe. It touches many lands like Sweden, Finland, and Poland. The water has very little salt, so the top can turn to ice in winter. People can even drive cars on the ice between some small islands. Long ago, boats sailed on it to carry things from one place to another. Today, many people still use it for travel and fishing.
Bamboo\n\nBamboo is a very tall kind of grass. It has a hard, wood-like stem that is hollow inside. The stem has rings called joints. It grows in warm places like Asia, Africa, and America. People use it to build houses, bridges, and boats. It is also the food that giant pandas eat. Some people cook and eat the soft new shoots. It grows very fast, sometimes taller than a grown-up in one day.
Banana\n\nA banana is a long, soft fruit that grows in warm places. It has a thick yellow skin that you peel off. Inside, it is white or light yellow and tastes sweet. You can eat it raw as a snack or put it in cereal. Some bananas are green and used for cooking. It grows in big bunches on tall plants that look like trees. Monkeys and people both love to eat it.
Band\n\nA band is a group of people who play music together. It has players with different tools like drums, guitars, and horns. You can see a band at a parade, a party, or on a big stage. They make happy sounds that make people want to dance and clap. Some bands wear matching clothes and march in a line. When you hear a band, you might feel the beat in your feet.
Bandage\n\nA bandage is a long, soft strip of cloth. It wraps around a cut or a scrape on your skin. It keeps the hurt place clean and stops a little blood. You might see a bandage in a first-aid box at home or at school. A grown-up puts it on you when you fall down and get a boo-boo. It helps your skin get better.
Bandung\n\nBandung is a big city in Indonesia. It sits on an island called Java. Many people live there, and it is full of pretty flowers and green trees. Long ago, leaders from many places came to Bandung for a big, friendly talk. People call it the City of Flowers because you can see bright blooms all around.
Banff National Park\n\nBanff National Park is a big, wild place in Canada. It has tall mountains with snow on top, big fields of ice, and thick green forests. Many animals live there, like bears, deer, and big sheep with curly horns. People go to the park to walk on trails, see the pretty blue lakes, and look at the animals. It is a very old park, and people have kept it safe for a long time.
Bang\n\nA bang is a loud, sudden noise. It sounds like a big pop or a hard hit. You might hear it when a door slams shut or when a balloon pops. It can also come from a drum if you hit it hard. A bang can make you jump because it is so quick and strong.
Bangkok\n\nBangkok is a very big city. It is the main city of a country called Thailand. Many, many people live there. It is hot almost all year. Lots of people visit it to see the big gold temples and ride on boats in the river. The city has a very long name in the Thai language, but people call it Bangkok for short.
Bangladesh\n\nBangladesh is a country in South Asia. It is a place with many people living close together. It has green fields, big rivers, and a long coast by the sea. The capital city is called Dhaka. People there speak a language called Bengali. Many people grow rice and fish in the rivers. The country has a big forest with trees that grow in water, where tigers live. It is a place with a long history and many stories.
Bank\n\nA bank is a place that keeps money safe. It has a big room with a counter and people who work there. You can find a bank in many towns and cities. People put their money in a bank to save it. Later, they can take the money out when they need it. A bank also gives money to people who want to buy a house. That is called a loan. The people must pay the money back a little at a time. A long time ago, people sat on a bench to trade money. That is where the word bank comes from.
Banknote\n\nA banknote is a piece of paper money. It is flat and has pictures and numbers on it. You can find it in a wallet or a purse. People use it to buy things like toys or food. A dollar bill is a banknote you might see.
Bankruptcy\n\nBankruptcy is a way to get help when you cannot pay your money back. It is a special rule from a court. When a person has no money to pay what they owe, a helper called a trustee takes some of their things and sells them. The money goes to the people they owe. After that, the person does not have to pay the rest. But it is harder for them to borrow money again. A company can also go bankrupt. Then a helper sells everything the company has, and the company closes. It is not the same as just having no money. It is a big step that a court must say yes to.
Baobab\n\nA baobab is a big, thick tree. It has a very fat trunk that can hold lots of water inside. It looks like its roots are sticking up in the air, so people call it the upside-down tree. It grows in hot, dry places in Africa and other lands. Its fruit is called monkey bread and tastes a little sour, like a mix of grapefruit and pear. People can eat the fruit and use the leaves to make soup. The trunk is sometimes so big that people make a little room inside it.
Baptism\n\nBaptism is a special water ceremony. It is a way to show that a person wants to follow God. A grown-up helper puts water on the person. Sometimes the water is just a little bit on the head. Other times the person goes all the way under the water. Many churches do this for babies. Some churches wait until the person is big enough to choose it. It is like a bath that says, "I am part of God's family now."
Bar\n\nA bar is a long, thin piece of something. It can be made of metal, wood, chocolate, or soap. You might see a bar on a playground to swing from. People also eat a bar as a snack, like a granola bar. A bar of soap is used to wash hands.
Barbados\n\nBarbados is a small island country in the big blue ocean. It has warm sun, soft sand, and clear water. Many people visit it to swim and play on the beach. It grows a sweet plant called sugar and makes a drink called rum. The people there speak English and love a game with a bat and ball called cricket.
Barber\n\nA barber is a person who cuts hair. He works in a shop with a big chair and a mirror. You sit in the chair, and he uses scissors and a buzzing tool to make your hair short and neat. He may also trim a beard or mustache. Many people go to a barber when their hair gets too long.
Barcelona\n\nBarcelona is a big city in Spain. It is next to the sea and has warm weather. Many people live there, and it has old buildings and new parks. People like to walk on a long street called La Rambla, where they see shows and shops. The city has a famous church with tall towers that is still being built. Many visitors come to eat small tasty foods and play on the beach. Barcelona also has a soccer team that wears red and blue.
Barcode\n\nA barcode is a picture of lines and spaces that a computer can read. It looks like a set of thick and thin black lines on a white box. You find it on almost every box or can you buy at the store. A machine at the checkout shines a red light on it to know what the thing is and how much it costs. When you see a pack of gum or a toy with a barcode, the scanner reads it fast and the computer says the name and price.
Bare\n\nBare means nothing is covering it. A bare foot has no sock or shoe on it. A bare tree has no leaves. When a room is bare, it has no furniture or toys inside. You can see bare ground where grass does not grow.
Barents Sea\n\nThe Barents Sea is a big, cold part of the ocean. It is near the top of the world, north of Norway and Russia. In winter, some of it is covered with ice, but in summer the ice melts. Many fish live in it, and people catch them for food. Big boats go out on it to bring fish back to land.
Barge\n\nA barge is a long, flat boat. It has a wide, open top and no tall parts. You can see it on rivers and canals. It carries big, heavy things like sand, rocks, or boxes from one place to another. Some barges are pulled by a small tugboat. A person who drives it is called a boatman.
Bark\n\nBark is the hard skin on the outside of a tree. It covers the tree trunk and branches, like a coat. It can feel bumpy or smooth, and it can be brown, gray, or white. It keeps the tree safe from bugs and bad weather. You can see it on trees in a park or in your yard. Some animals, like squirrels, climb on it.
Barley\n\nBarley is a plant that grows in fields. It has long, thin leaves and a tall stem with seeds at the top. Farmers plant it in big open spaces. People use its seeds to make food like bread and soup. Some people also use it to make a drink called beer. Animals like cows and horses eat it too. Barley has been grown for a very long time, even before your great-great-grandparents were born.
Barn\n\nA barn is a big building on a farm. It has tall walls and a wide roof. You can find it near fields and animals. Farmers use it to keep hay, tools, and animals safe. Sometimes it is painted red with white edges. A barn keeps things dry when it rains.
Barometer\n\nA barometer is a tool that checks how heavy the air is. It has a round face with a little hand that moves. You can find it in a weather station or sometimes in a house. It helps people know if the weather will be sunny or rainy. When the hand goes up, the air is heavy and the day is often clear. When the hand goes down, the air is light and rain may come. Pilots use a special kind to see how high their plane is flying.
Baroque\n\nBaroque is a fancy way of making art, buildings, and music from a long time ago. It has lots of curls, gold, and bright colors. You can see it in big old churches and palaces in Europe. The music has many notes that dance and jump. It makes people feel big and grand.
Barracuda\n\nA barracuda is a big fish that lives in warm ocean water. It has a long, thin body and a mouth full of very sharp teeth. It stays near the top of the water, close to sea grass and coral. It eats other fish, especially ones that are shiny and silver. Sometimes it can mistake a shiny bracelet on a person for a fish and try to bite. That is why people who swim in the ocean take off shiny things. It can swim very fast for a short time to catch its food.
Barranquilla\n\nBarranquilla is a big city in a country called Colombia. It sits near the top of the country, close to a big river and the sea. Many people live there, and it is one of the biggest cities in Colombia. People in Barranquilla have a big, happy party every year with music, dancing, and bright colors. It is a place where the weather is warm and sunny most of the time.
Basalt\n\nBasalt is a dark gray or black rock. It comes from hot, melted rock that flows out of a volcano. When the hot rock cools down fast, it turns into basalt. It is very hard and strong. People use it to make roads and sidewalks. You can also see it in some buildings and houses. Basalt is found in many places on Earth, and even on the Moon.
Base\n\nA base is the bottom part of something. It holds the rest of the thing up so it does not fall over. You can see a base under a lamp, a cup, or a big building. When you build with blocks, the block at the very bottom is the base. It keeps the tower strong and steady.
Baseball\n\nBaseball is a game where two teams take turns hitting a ball and running. It is played on a big grassy field with four white bags called bases. The bases make a diamond shape. One team throws the ball, and the other team tries to hit it with a bat. When a player hits the ball, they run around the bases to score a point. The other team tries to catch the ball and tag the runner out. You can see baseball in parks or on TV, and many kids play it in the backyard.
Basil\n\nBasil is a small green plant with soft leaves. It has a strong, sweet smell and a taste that is a little like candy. People grow it in gardens or in pots on a sunny windowsill. They use its leaves to add flavor to food, like pasta sauce or soup. You might see it on top of a pizza or mixed into a green sauce called pesto. It likes warm weather and needs water to stay happy.
Basket\n\nA basket is a container you can carry. It is made of long, thin pieces of wood, plastic, or grass woven together. You can find it in a kitchen, a garden, or a store. People use it to hold things like fruit, toys, or clothes. You might see a basket at a picnic with bread and apples inside.
Basket weaving\n\nBasket weaving is a way to make things by crossing strips over and under each other. It uses long, flat pieces like grass, thin wood, or paper. People do it to make baskets, mats, and bags. A basket is a bowl-shaped thing you can carry. You might see a woven basket at a picnic holding fruit or bread. Some people weave as a fun hobby at home.
Basketball\n\nBasketball is a game where two teams try to throw a ball into a hoop. It is played on a flat floor with a hoop at each end. The ball is round and orange, and it bounces when you push it down. Players run, jump, and pass the ball to their friends. They try to shoot the ball through the hoop to get points. You can see basketball in parks, school yards, and on TV. Many kids play it during recess or after school.
Basra\n\nBasra is a big city in a country called Iraq. It sits next to a wide river that leads to a big sea. Many boats stop there to bring things in and out of the country. It is one of the oldest cities in that part of the world. Long ago, people built it as a new home where they could live and pray together.
Bass guitar\n\nA bass guitar is a big string instrument that makes low, deep sounds. It looks like a guitar but is longer and heavier. It has a wooden body, a long neck, and four thick metal strings. You see it in bands that play rock, pop, or country music. A player plucks the strings with fingers or a small plastic pick. The sound goes through a wire to a big speaker so everyone can hear the deep notes. It helps the band by playing the low part of the song, like a steady heartbeat.
Bassoon\n\nA bassoon is a long wooden instrument that makes low sounds. It has many parts that fit together, and a small double reed at the top that you blow into. You hold it to your right side, and it is heavy, so players often sit on a strap to help carry it. It is found in an orchestra, where it plays deep, warm notes. Sometimes it plays funny bouncy tunes, and sometimes it plays sad, gentle songs. A person who plays it is called a bassoonist.
Bat\n\nA bat is a small animal that can fly. It has wings made of thin skin stretched over long finger bones. It sleeps during the day and comes out at night. It lives in dark places like caves, old buildings, or trees. It uses its ears to find its way in the dark by making high sounds that bounce back. It eats bugs, fruit, or sometimes nectar from flowers. You might see one flying in the evening sky when the sun goes down.
Bath\n\nA bath is a big bowl that people sit in to wash their body. It is usually found in a bathroom at home. It is often white and feels smooth and hard. You fill it with warm water and maybe some bubbles or nice-smelling soap. Then you can sit and relax while you get clean. Some people also go to big baths in special buildings to feel good and meet friends. A long, long time ago, people in old cities built big baths for everyone to use.
Bathing\n\nBathing is when you wash your body with water. It can happen in a bathtub, a shower, or even a big pool. People do it to get clean and stay healthy. Sometimes it is just for fun, like playing in the bath with toys. You might also see it at the beach when you swim in the ocean. After bathing, you feel fresh and smell nice.
Bathroom\n\nA bathroom is a room in a house. It has a toilet, a sink, and a tub or shower. People go there to wash hands, brush teeth, and take baths. It helps keep us clean every day. Some bathrooms are small with just a toilet and sink. Others are big with a tub for playing in water. You can find a bathroom in almost every home.
Bathtub\n\nA bathtub is a big bowl in the bathroom that you can fill with water. It is long and deep enough to sit or lie down in. You find it in most houses, next to the sink and the toilet. People use it to wash their body and to play with toys in the water. When you take a bath, you can add bubbles that smell nice and feel soft on your skin.
Battering ram\n\nA battering ram is a big, heavy log that people used long ago to break walls and doors. It is very thick and strong, and many people carry it together. In old times, soldiers used it to smash open castle gates made of wood or stone. They would swing it again and again until a hole appeared. Today, smaller ones are used by police to open locked doors in an emergency.
Battery\n\nA battery is a small thing that gives power. It is often a little round or square box. You can find it inside toys, a TV remote, or a flashlight. It makes things turn on, light up, or move without a cord. When a toy stops working, you may need a new battery.
Battle\n\nA battle is a big fight between two groups. It happens when each side wants to win. You can see it in old stories with knights and horses. Soldiers use swords, shields, or loud guns. A battle can change who is in charge of a land. Many battles happen on a big open field called a battlefield.
Battle-axe\n\nA battle-axe is a big, sharp tool for fighting. It has a long handle and a heavy metal head with a cutting edge. Long ago, fighters used it in battles. Some were small enough for one hand, and some were so big they needed two hands. It could cut through shields and armor. You might see one in a storybook about knights or in a cartoon with brave warriors.
Battleship\n\nA battleship is a very big boat used in wars. It is made of strong metal and has huge guns on top. Long ago, many countries used it to fight on the sea. Today, you can see old ones in museums, where they sit still for people to visit.
Bay\n\nA bay is a big pool of water that sits next to the land. It is part of the sea or a lake, and the land wraps around it on three sides. The water in a bay is often calm, so many bays have a soft, sandy beach where children can play. Some bays are small, and some are so big you cannot see the other side. A very big bay is sometimes called a gulf. You might see a bay when you go to the seaside with your family.
Bay of Bengal\n\nThe Bay of Bengal is a big body of water. It is part of the big ocean. It has a shape like a triangle. It sits next to India and some other lands. Many boats sail on it to carry things from one place to another. People catch fish in it. The water is warm and blue.
Bay of Biscay\n\nThe Bay of Biscay is a big part of the ocean. It sits next to the west side of France and the north side of Spain. The water is very deep, and the waves can get huge and scary. Big storms happen there, especially when it is cold outside. Long ago, boats got broken in the storms, but now people know when bad weather is coming. Many kinds of whales and dolphins live in this part of the ocean. It is a good place to see some whales that are hard to find anywhere else.
Be\n\nBe is a small word we use to talk about what something is. It helps us say things like "I am happy" or "The dog is big." We use it every day when we talk and write. It can change shape to am, is, or are. Without it, it is hard to make a sentence.
Beach\n\nA beach is a place where the land meets the water. It is covered with soft sand or tiny stones. You can find it next to the big ocean, a lake, or a river. People go to the beach to play in the sand, swim in the water, and feel the warm sun. Some beaches have white sand and clear blue water. You might see shells, little crabs, or birds there. Many families bring a towel and a bucket to build sandcastles. A beach is a happy place to run and splash.
Beach volleyball\n\nBeach volleyball is a game played on sand. It has two teams, with two people on each side. A net stands in the middle to split the court. Players hit a ball over the net with their hands. They try to make the ball land on the other team's sand. You can see it at the beach on a sunny day.
Bead\n\nA bead is a tiny, round thing with a hole through the middle. It can be made of wood, plastic, or glass. You find beads in craft boxes or on necklaces and bracelets. People put a string through the hole to make pretty jewelry. A bead can be many colors, like red, blue, or shiny gold.
Beak\n\nA beak is the hard, pointy mouth of a bird. It has no teeth, so the bird uses it to pick up food. You can see it on birds like a chicken, a duck, or a sparrow. It can be short or long, and it comes in many colors like yellow or black. A bird also uses it to clean its feathers and build a nest.
Beam\n\nA beam is a long, strong piece of wood or metal. It is straight and can be very heavy. You find it in buildings, holding up the roof or the floor above. It helps keep the house from falling down. When you look up in a big room, you might see a beam across the ceiling.
Bean\n\nA bean is a small seed that grows inside a pod. It can be round or flat and comes in many colors like red, black, or green. You find beans in gardens or at the store in cans or bags. People cook beans and eat them in soup or with rice. They are soft when you cook them and taste warm and yummy. A green bean is one kind you might see on your plate.
Bear\n\nA bear is a big, strong animal with thick fur. It has a large body, short legs, a short tail, and a wide head with small round ears. It lives in forests, mountains, and cold places all over the world. It can walk on all four legs or stand up on its back legs. It uses its big paws with long claws to dig, climb, and catch food. A bear eats many things like berries, grass, and fish. Some bears sleep all winter in a cozy den. A mother bear takes care of her little cubs and keeps them safe. You may know a bear from stories like Winnie the Pooh or a soft teddy bear toy.
Beard\n\nA beard is hair that grows on a man's chin and cheeks. It can be short or long, thick or thin. Some men let it grow big, and some cut it short. Many men shave it off every day to keep their face smooth. You might see a beard on a dad, a grandpa, or a man in a storybook. Some animals, like goats, also have hair under their chin that people call a beard.
Beat\n\nA beat is a steady tap or sound that repeats. It is like a clock going tick, tick, tick. You can feel a beat in music when you clap your hands or tap your foot. Drums make a beat that people dance to. Your heart also makes a beat inside your chest, going thump, thump, thump.
Beatles\n\nThe Beatles were a band with four friends who played music together. They sang songs and played guitars and drums. Many people loved to hear them on the radio and at big shows. Their songs are still played today, and even kids can clap and dance to the happy tunes.
Beautiful\n\nBeautiful is a word we use when something makes us feel very happy just by looking at it. It can be a bright rainbow after the rain, a soft pink flower, or a shiny star in the night sky. You can find beautiful things all around you, like in a park, at the beach, or even in your own room. When you see something beautiful, you might smile or want to share it with a friend. A drawing you make with lots of colors can be beautiful too.
Beauty\n\nBeauty is a special feeling you get when something looks, sounds, or feels very nice. It can be a bright rainbow in the sky, a soft song, or a warm hug. You can find it in a flower, a smile, or a pretty painting. It makes you feel happy inside. A sunset with pink and orange colors is one example of beauty.
Beaver\n\nA beaver is a big animal with brown fur. It has a wide, flat tail and strong front teeth. It lives near rivers and lakes in North America and Europe. It can swim in water and walk on land. It builds a home called a dam out of sticks and mud. The dam stops the water and makes a small pond. Many other animals live in the pond too. A beaver cuts down trees with its teeth to get wood for the dam. Its fur is thick and soft to keep it warm in cold water.
Because\n\nBecause is a word that tells why something happens. It joins two parts of a sentence to give a reason. When you say "I am happy because I got a toy," it shows the toy is the reason for the happy feeling. People use it every day to explain things. It helps others understand what made something happen.
Become\n\nBecome means to change into something new. It is like when a tiny seed grows into a big flower. You can become a big kid when you learn to tie your shoes. A caterpillar becomes a butterfly inside a cozy cocoon. When you practice, you become better at drawing or singing.
Bed\n\nA bed is a soft place where you sleep at night. It has a big, fluffy part called a mattress on a strong frame. You put a sheet over the mattress and a warm blanket on top. A pillow goes under your head to make it comfy. Beds come in many sizes, like a small one for one person or a big one for two. You can find a bed in a bedroom at home. People use it to rest and dream when they are tired. A baby sleeps in a tiny bed called a crib. When you go camping, you might sleep on a small bed that blows up with air.
Bedbug\n\nA bedbug is a tiny bug that drinks blood. It has a flat, round body and no wings. It hides in beds, sofas, and small cracks during the day. At night, it comes out to bite people while they sleep. The bite feels itchy, like a mosquito bite. You might see small red spots on your skin in the morning.
Bedroom\n\nA bedroom is a room in a house where you sleep at night. It has a soft bed with a pillow and a blanket. You can find it in almost every home. It is a quiet place to rest when you are tired. In the morning, you wake up there and get ready for the day.
Bedtime\n\nBedtime is the time when you get ready to sleep. It happens at night when the sky is dark. You put on soft pajamas and brush your teeth. Then you climb into your cozy bed with a blanket and pillow. Mom or Dad may read you a story or sing a quiet song. After that, you close your eyes and rest until morning.
Bee\n\nA bee is a small flying bug that helps flowers grow. It has a fuzzy body with yellow and black stripes. It has six legs, four wings, and a tiny stinger at the back. You can see bees in gardens, parks, and fields where flowers bloom. It flies from flower to flower to pick up yellow dust called pollen. It uses the pollen to make food for its babies. Some bees live together in a big group called a hive. In a hive, one queen bee lays all the eggs. Worker bees are girls that find food and guard the home. A bee makes a sweet, sticky food called honey. People keep bees in wooden boxes to collect the honey. When a bee is scared, it might sting to protect itself. A sting can hurt, but bees usually stay calm if you leave them alone.
Beech\n\nA beech is a big tree with smooth, light gray bark. It has many green leaves that make deep shade on the ground. In spring, it grows tiny flowers, and later it makes small, pointy nuts. The nuts are called beechnuts, and some animals eat them. People use the wood from it to make chairs, tables, and tool handles. The wood also burns well in a fire. You might see it in a park or a forest, standing tall with other trees.
Beef\n\nBeef is meat that comes from cows. It is red before you cook it and turns brown when it is hot. People cut it into flat pieces called steak or chop it into tiny bits to make hamburgers. You can find it at the store or on a grill at a cookout. It has things inside that help your body grow strong, but eating too much is not good for you. Many people in a country called Argentina love beef and eat it often.
Beekeeping\n\nBeekeeping is when people take care of bees. They give the bees a safe home called a hive. The bees make sweet honey that people can eat. A beekeeper wears a special suit so the bees do not sting. Inside the hive, one big queen bee lays all the eggs. The other bees are her family. Some people keep bees in the city, and some keep them on farms. Bees also help flowers and food plants grow by carrying tiny yellow dust from one flower to another.
Beep\n\nA beep is a short, high sound. It comes from things like a car horn, a microwave, or a toy robot. You hear it when someone presses a button or when a machine wants to tell you something. A beep can mean "look out" or "I am done." Sometimes a truck goes beep-beep-beep when it moves backward.
Beer\n\nBeer is a drink that grown-ups sometimes have. It is yellow or brown and has bubbles on top. People make it from grains and water. It can taste bitter. You might see it in a can or a bottle at a store or a party. Kids do not drink beer.
Beet\n\nA beet is a plant with a round, fat root that grows under the ground. It is dark red or purple on the outside and bright red inside. You can find it in a garden or at a food store. People cook it and eat it in salads or soup. It tastes a little sweet and can turn your hands pink when you touch it.
Beethoven\n\nBeethoven was a man who made music a long time ago. He played the piano and wrote songs that people still play today. He lived in a place far away called Germany. When he grew older, he could not hear, but he still made beautiful music in his head. Many children learn to play his songs on the piano.
Beetle\n\nA beetle is a small bug with a hard, shiny body. It has six legs, two feelers on its head, and a tough shell on its back. You can find it in gardens, parks, and forests, but not in the ocean or very cold places. It uses its strong jaws to eat plants, dead things, or other tiny bugs. Some beetles can fly, and some have bright colors to warn birds that they taste bad. A ladybug is a beetle you might see on a leaf.
Before\n\nBefore means earlier in time. It is the opposite of after. When you wake up, morning comes before lunch. You put on your socks before your shoes. When you line up, the person in front is before you. Before you go to bed, you brush your teeth.
Begin\n\nTo begin means to start something. It is the very first step you take. When you open a new box of crayons, you begin to color. At school, the teacher says "let's begin" when it is time to learn. You can begin a game, a song, or a story. Every day, you begin with a big stretch and a smile.
Behavior\n\nBehavior is the way a person or an animal acts. It is what you do with your body and your words. When you share a toy, that is kind behavior. When you run and jump, that is active behavior. You can see behavior at home, at school, and on the playground. A dog wagging its tail is happy behavior. A cat purring is calm behavior. Everyone shows behavior all day long.
Behind\n\nBehind means at the back of something. When you stand behind a chair, the chair is in front of you. You can hide behind a door or a big tree. If you walk behind your friend, you follow them. It is the opposite of in front.
Beijing\n\nBeijing is a very big city in China. It is the capital, where the leaders work. It has many old buildings and big walls from long ago. Many people live there, and many more visit to see the sights. You can find big parks, busy streets, and a famous square. It is a place where old and new things meet.
Being\n\nBeing means that something is real and alive. It is what makes a person, an animal, or a plant not just a thing. When you are happy, sad, or sleepy, that is part of your being. Every living thing has its own way of being. A dog shows its being by wagging its tail. A flower shows its being by opening up to the sun.
Beirut\n\nBeirut is a big city by the sea. It has many old buildings and busy streets. People live there and work in shops and offices. It sits next to blue water, and tall mountains stand behind it. Long ago, many people came to Beirut to trade and share ideas. Today, families walk by the water and eat tasty food. It is a place full of stories.
Belarus\n\nBelarus is a country in Europe. It has many forests and lakes. The capital city is Minsk. Many people live there. It is next to Russia, Ukraine, Poland, and other places. The land is mostly flat and has big rivers. People speak Belarusian and Russian. A long time ago, it was part of a bigger group of countries. Now it is its own country.
Belgium\n\nBelgium is a country in Europe. It is not very big, and it sits next to France, Germany, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands. Many people there speak Dutch or French. Its main city is Brussels, where big groups from many countries meet. Belgium has flat land near the sea and hills with trees in the south. People eat yummy waffles and chocolate there. A king lives in Belgium, but the people also choose leaders to help run the country.
Belgrade\n\nBelgrade is a big city where many people live. It is the most important city in a country called Serbia. It has old buildings, busy streets, and a big river next to it. People visit to see the old walls and tall towers. At night, many lights turn on and people go out to eat and dance. Long ago, different groups of people lived there one after another. Today, it is a busy place full of cars, buses, and happy visitors.
Belief\n\nA belief is a strong thought that something is true. It lives inside your head and your heart. You cannot touch it or see it, but it feels real. Many people have a belief about a big, kind friend in the sky. Others have a belief that a friend will come to play. It is not like a fact you can check with your eyes. It is more like a warm feeling that helps you feel safe.
Believe\n\nBelieve means you think something is true. When you believe, you feel sure inside. You can believe in people, like your mom or your best friend. You can also believe in things you cannot see, like love or a wish. It helps you feel safe and happy.
Belize\n\nBelize is a small country in Central America. It sits next to the Caribbean Sea. It has many tiny islands and a big coral reef in the water. The weather is hot all year. People there speak English. Many also speak Spanish or other languages. You can see a bird with a big colorful beak called a toucan. You can also see a big animal like a donkey that loves water, called a tapir.
Bell\n\nA bell is a shiny metal thing that makes a sound. It is round and open at the bottom, with a little stick inside that hits the sides. You can find bells in churches, on boats, and in schools. When someone moves it, it goes ding-dong. A bell tells people the time or warns them to be careful. You might see a small bell on a cat's collar or on a bicycle.
Belly\n\nA belly is the soft, round part in the middle of your body. It is below your chest and above your legs. Inside it, your body keeps the food you eat and turns it into energy. When you are hungry, your belly might make a growling sound. After you eat a big meal, it can feel full and tight. You can put your hand on it to feel it move when you breathe.
Belly dance\n\nBelly dance is a kind of dance where people move their body in soft, round ways. It uses the hips and the tummy a lot. The dancer often wears bright clothes that show the tummy. It started in a place called Egypt, far away. People do it to happy music with drums and strings. You might see it at a party or a show. Many boys and girls learn it when they are small.
Belong\n\nTo belong means you are part of a group. It feels warm and safe, like when you sit with your family at dinner. You can belong at home, at school, or with your friends. When you belong, people know your name and smile when they see you. It is a happy feeling.
Below\n\nBelow means under something or lower than something. It is the opposite of above. You can find your shoes below your bed. A cat might hide below a table. When you look down, you see what is below you.
Belt\n\nA belt is a long, thin piece of clothing you wear around your waist. It is often made of soft animal skin called leather or strong cloth. It has a shiny metal part at one end called a buckle. You put the other end through the buckle to make it tight. It helps keep your pants or skirt from falling down. Many people wear a belt with jeans. You can see belts in black or brown most of the time. Some belts have fun buckles, like ones with a star or a horse.
Ben\n\nBen is a name for a boy. It is short and easy to say. You might know a Ben at school or in your neighborhood. A Ben can be a friend who likes to play and share toys. Sometimes a Ben has a big smile and a kind laugh.
Bench\n\nA bench is a long seat for more than one person. It has a flat part to sit on and legs to hold it up. You can find it in a park, a garden, or at a bus stop. People sit on it to rest, eat a snack, or watch birds. Some benches are made of wood, and some are made of metal. It can be a nice place to sit with a friend.
Bend\n\nA bend is when something straight turns or curves. It can be a bend in a road, a bend in a pipe, or a bend in your arm. When you fold a piece of paper, you make a bend in it. You can also bend your body to touch your toes. A bend changes the shape of a thing without breaking it.
Bengali Language\n\nBengali Language is a way people talk and write. It has pretty letters that look like round shapes and lines. Many people in a country called Bangladesh and a part of India speak it. They use it to say hello, sing songs, and tell stories. You might hear it if you meet someone from those places.
Benin\n\nBenin is a country in Africa. It is a long, thin shape on a map, next to the big ocean. Many people there speak French, but they also speak other local languages. In Benin, you can see elephants, lions, and monkeys in big parks. The weather is hot and wet, with lots of rain. Long ago, it was ruled by kings, and now it has its own leaders.
Beowulf\n\nBeowulf is a very old story about a brave man. It is a long poem from a land far away. In the story, a king and his people are scared of a big, mean monster that comes at night. Beowulf comes to help them. He fights the monster with his strong hands and wins. Later, he also fights the monster's angry mother and a big fire-breathing dragon. The story shows how Beowulf is strong and good. People still read this old story today in books and see it in movies.
Bering Sea\n\nThe Bering Sea is a big body of water near the top of the world. It touches Alaska on one side and Russia on the other side. It is very cold and full of fish, whales, and birds. Long ago, when the water was low, people walked across the land where the sea is now. Today, big boats go there to catch fish like salmon and crab.
Bering Strait\n\nThe Bering Strait is a narrow strip of water between two big lands. It sits between Russia and Alaska. It is not very deep, and it has a few tiny islands in the middle. Long ago, the water was not there, and people and animals could walk across on dry ground. Today, ships can sail through it. Some people dream of building a bridge or a tunnel so cars and trains could go from one side to the other.
Berlin\n\nBerlin is a big city in the country of Germany. It has many old and new buildings, wide streets, and a river that runs through it. Many people from all over the world live there. It is the capital city, so the leaders of Germany work there. A long time ago, a wall split the city into two parts, but now the wall is gone and people can walk everywhere. You can see a famous gate called the Brandenburg Gate, and many buses and trains bring people to work and school.
Bermuda\n\nBermuda is a group of small islands in the big blue ocean. It has one big island and many tiny islands around it. The sand on its beaches is pink and soft. The water is clear and warm. People visit Bermuda to swim and play. They also see old stone houses and bright flowers. It is far from other lands, so you need a boat or a plane to get there.
Berry\n\nA berry is a small, soft fruit that you can eat. It is often round and has tiny seeds inside or on the outside. Many berries are red, blue, or purple, and they taste sweet or a little sour. You can find them growing on small bushes in gardens or farms. People pick berries and eat them fresh, put them in cereal, or bake them into pies. A strawberry is a berry that many children love.
Best\n\nBest means the very top one. It is the one you like the most out of all the others. When you pick your favorite toy, that toy is the best. In a race, the runner who comes first is the best. You can be the best at sharing or helping. Being best does not mean you are better than everyone else. It just means you tried very hard and did a great job.
Betelgeuse\n\nBetelgeuse is a big, bright star in the night sky. It looks red and shiny. You can find it in a group of stars called Orion, which looks like a hunter. It is one of the biggest stars we can see. It is much, much bigger than our Sun. A long time from now, it will pop in a huge flash of light.
Better\n\nBetter means something is more good than another thing. It is a word we use when we compare two things. If you have a small cookie and a big cookie, the big cookie is better. It can also mean you feel more happy or well. After a nap, you might say, "I feel better." People use this word every day to talk about what they like more.
Between\n\nBetween means in the middle of two things. If you stand with a friend on your left and a friend on your right, you are between them. It can also mean a time that is after one thing and before another, like snack time is between lunch and dinner. You might see a small bug sitting between two big leaves in the garden.
Beverage\n\nA beverage is something you drink. It can be cold or hot. You find it in a cup, a bottle, or a glass. People drink it when they are thirsty. Water, milk, and juice are all beverages.
Bhagavad\n\nBhagavad is a very old story from India. It is a long poem about a man named Arjuna and his friend Krishna. They talk about big ideas like being brave and doing the right thing. People read it to feel calm and strong inside. You might see a picture of it in a book with blue and gold colors.
Bhagavad Gita\n\nThe Bhagavad Gita is a very old book from India. It is a story about a prince named Arjuna and his friend Krishna. In the story, Arjuna is sad and does not want to fight. Krishna teaches him to be brave and do the right thing. People read it to learn about being good and calm. Many people keep a copy at home or in a temple.
Bharata Natyam\n\nBharata Natyam is a kind of dance from India. It uses hands, face, and feet to tell a story. Dancers wear bright clothes with bells on their ankles. You can see it on a stage with music and singing. It is like a moving picture book.
Bhutan\n\nBhutan is a small country high up in big mountains. It has tall green hills, snowy tops, and clean rivers. Many people there follow a kind and quiet way of life. The king takes care of the land and the people. In Bhutan, you can see colorful birds, monkeys with golden fur, and pretty flowers. People love to shoot arrows at a target for fun. It is a place where the air is very fresh and the sky is blue.
Bias\n\nBias is when someone likes one idea more than another and does not treat both the same. It can show up in stories, news, or even how we measure things. For example, a news story might only tell good things about one side and leave out the bad. It can also use mean words to make something look bad. When we measure, bias can happen if we forget to take off our shoes and then say we are taller than we really are.
Biathlon\n\nBiathlon is a sport with two parts. It mixes skiing on snow and shooting at a target. You see it in cold places with lots of snow. A person skis fast on long, flat skis, then stops to shoot a small gun at round circles. It is like a race where you also need a steady hand. You can watch it on TV during the Winter Games.
Bib\n\nA bib is a small cloth that ties around a baby's neck. It hangs down over the baby's clothes. It catches food and drink that spills when the baby eats. Many bibs are made of soft cotton or plastic that is easy to wipe clean. You can see a bib in a kitchen or a restaurant when a family has a little baby.
Bible\n\nThe Bible is a very special book. It is made of many smaller books all put together. People read it in churches and at home. It tells stories about God and about a man named Jesus. It also has songs and wise sayings. Many people keep a Bible on a shelf or by their bed.
Bicycle\n\nA bicycle is a small ride with two wheels. It has a seat, two pedals, and a metal chain. A person sits on top and pushes the pedals with their feet to make it go. It has a handlebar to turn the front wheel. Many people ride a bicycle for fun or to go to school. It is a good way to move without using a car. Some bicycles have a bell to make a sound. Wearing a helmet keeps the rider safe.
Big\n\nBig means something is very large. It is the opposite of small. An elephant is big. A house is big. A big thing takes up a lot of space. You can see big things all around you, like a big tree or a big truck. When you grow up, you will get big too.
Big Bang\n\nThe Big Bang is how scientists think the whole universe began. It started very long ago as a tiny, hot, and heavy dot. Then it grew bigger and bigger very fast, like a balloon blowing up. From that big start, all the stars, planets, and everything we see came to be. The universe is still growing today, and it gets colder as it grows. Scientists see that faraway stars look red, which shows they are moving away from us.
Bike\n\nA bike is a thing with two wheels that you can ride. It has a seat, two pedals, and handles to hold. You push the pedals with your feet to make it go. Many kids ride a bike in the park or on the street. Some bikes have a little bell that goes ring-ring. You can ride it fast or slow, and it is fun.
Bill\n\nBill is a name for a boy or a man. It is a short way to say the name William. You might meet a Bill at school, at the park, or in a storybook. He could be a friend, a dad, or a grandpa. Some famous Bills are in movies or songs, but most Bills are just regular people you see every day.
Bin\n\nA bin is a box or a can that holds things. It can be made of hard plastic or metal. You find it in a kitchen, a room, or outside on the street. People use it to throw away trash or to keep toys tidy. When you put a candy wrapper in a bin, the room stays clean.
Binary number\n\nA binary number is a way to write numbers using only two digits: 0 and 1. It is like a secret code that computers use. Inside a computer, tiny wires can be on for 1 or off for 0. With many 0s and 1s, a computer can show words, songs, and videos. You can count with binary numbers just like you count with normal numbers, but each spot is worth two times the spot before it.
Bingo\n\nBingo is a fun game you play with a card and small markers. It has rows of numbers or pictures on a flat card. You find it at parties, school, or game nights with family. A grown-up calls out a number or word, and you cover it if you see it on your card. When you cover a whole row, you shout "Bingo!" and win. It is a happy game that makes people smile.
Binoculars\n\nBinoculars are a tool that helps you see things that are far away. It has two small tubes that you hold up to your eyes. Inside each tube there are special pieces of glass that make far things look big and close. You can find it in places where people watch birds, look at stars, or see a show on a big stage. Some people use it on a boat to look across the water. When you look through it, a bird in a tall tree looks like it is right next to you.
Biochemistry\n\nBiochemistry is a kind of science. It looks at the tiny things inside living bodies, like people, animals, and plants. It studies how these tiny parts work together to keep us alive. For example, it helps us know how food gives us energy to run and play. Scientists who do biochemistry work in labs with special tools.
Biodiversity\n\nBiodiversity means all the different kinds of living things in one place. It includes every plant, every animal, and every tiny bug. You can find it in a forest, in a pond, or even in your own backyard. When a place has many different living things, it is healthy and strong. People work hard to keep it safe so that animals and plants do not go away forever.
Biofuel\n\nBiofuel is a kind of fuel made from plants and other living things. It can be a liquid, a solid, or a gas. People use it to make cars go, to heat houses, and to cook food. One way to make it is from plants like corn or sugar cane. Another way is from old wood or grass. It is not the same as the old fuel from deep under the ground. That old fuel comes from things that died a very long time ago.
Biography\n\nA biography is the story of a real person's life. It tells what the person did, where they lived, and what they were like. You can find biographies in books at the library or in movies. Some people write the story of their own life, and that is called an autobiography. A biography helps us learn about people who lived long ago or far away.
Biology\n\nBiology is the study of all living things. It looks at animals, plants, and tiny living things we cannot see with our eyes alone. A person who studies biology is called a biologist. They watch how living things grow, move, and have babies. They also see how living things share food and space with each other. You can see biology when you plant a seed and it grows into a flower, or when a baby bird hatches from an egg.
Biome\n\nA biome is a big area of land where certain plants and animals live together. It has its own kind of weather, like hot or cold, wet or dry. You can find a biome all over the world, like a forest, a desert, or a grassland. In a forest biome, many trees grow and animals like deer and birds live there. In a desert biome, it is very dry and you might see a cactus or a lizard. Each biome is a special home for the living things that fit there best.
Biosphere\n\nThe biosphere is all the living things on Earth. It is like a big, invisible bubble that wraps around our planet. Inside it, you find every plant, animal, and tiny bug. It goes from deep in the ocean up to the sky where birds fly. Even in very cold ice or hot deserts, something lives there. The biosphere is our home where all life stays together.
Biotechnology\n\nBiotechnology is when people use living things to make new things. It uses tiny parts of plants, animals, or bugs that are too small to see. People use it to make bread rise and to make cheese. It can also help make medicine for sick people. Some farmers use it to grow bigger fruits and vegetables.
Birch\n\nA birch is a kind of tree. It has a thin, white trunk that looks like paper. You can find it in cool places with lots of trees. People use its wood to make things like chairs and toys. In fall, its small green leaves turn yellow and drop to the ground.
Bird\n\nA bird is an animal with feathers and wings. It has two legs, a beak, and a tail. Birds live all over the world—in trees, near water, and in gardens. It can fly high in the sky using its wings. Some birds, like a chicken or a duck, walk on the ground. A bird you might see is a robin with a red belly.
Bird of prey\n\nA bird of prey is a bird that hunts other animals for food. It has a strong, hooked beak and sharp claws called talons. It uses its claws to grab and hold its food. It has very good eyes to see small animals from far away. Some birds of prey fly and hunt during the day, like eagles and hawks. Others hunt at night, like owls. You might see one sitting on a high tree or flying in big circles in the sky.
Bird-of-paradise\n\nA bird-of-paradise is a kind of bird with very pretty feathers. It lives in warm, wet forests far away. The boy bird has long, bright, and fluffy feathers to show off. He dances and sings so a girl bird will pick him. The girl bird has plain brown feathers and builds a soft nest in a tree. It eats fruit and bugs. Some kinds are very small, and some are as big as a crow.
Birdhouse\n\nA birdhouse is a small home made for birds. It looks like a tiny wooden box with a round hole in the front. You can find it hanging in a tree or on a pole in a garden. Birds use it to stay safe from rain and wind. They also build a nest inside to keep their eggs warm. A child might see a birdhouse in a park or in a neighbor's yard.
Birmingham\n\nBirmingham is a big city in England. It has many houses, shops, and roads. A lot of people live there, more than in most other English cities. Long ago, people made cars and planes there. Today, you can still see big car factories. Many trains and cars go through the city every day.
Birth\n\nBirth is when a baby comes out of its mommy's tummy. It is the start of life outside the mommy. The baby grows inside a soft, warm place in the mommy for a long time. When the baby is ready, the mommy's body helps push it out. The baby comes out through a special path between the mommy's legs. A doctor or a nurse often helps the mommy and the baby. After birth, the baby cries, breathes air, and drinks milk. A baby cat is born from a mommy cat, and a baby bird comes out of an egg.
Birth Control\n\nBirth control is a way to stop a baby from growing inside a mommy's tummy. It can be a tiny pill she takes every day. Sometimes it is a small thing a doctor puts inside her body. It helps a family choose when they are ready to have a baby. A mommy and daddy talk to a doctor to pick the best way for them.
Birthday\n\nA birthday is the day you were born. It comes once every year. On this day, people have a party with friends and family. They eat a sweet cake with candles on top. The candles show how old you are. People sing a happy song and give you gifts wrapped in bright paper. You might get a card with kind words inside. Not everyone has a birthday party, but many children love this special day.
Biscuit\n\nA biscuit is a small baked food. It can be sweet or soft like bread. In some places, it is a flat, sweet treat you eat with tea or milk. In other places, it is a soft, round bread you eat with butter or jam. You can find biscuits at a bakery or make them at home with a grown-up.
Bison\n\nA bison is a big, strong animal with thick brown fur. It has a large head, short curved horns, and a big hump on its back. It lives in open grassy lands. It eats grass and plants all day. A long time ago, many bison walked across the land in big groups.
Bit\n\nA bit is a tiny piece of something. It is the smallest part you can have. You find bits in many places, like a bit of cookie on your plate or a bit of sand at the beach. People use the word to talk about a little bit of food, a little bit of time, or a little bit of color. When you share a snack with a friend, you might give them a bit.
Bite\n\nA bite is when you use your teeth to close down on something. It can be a small piece of food you take with your mouth, like a bite of an apple. When you eat a cookie, you take one bite after another until it is gone. Some bugs, like ants or mosquitoes, can bite your skin and make a little red bump. A bite from a dog or a cat can hurt, so you should be gentle with animals.
Bitter\n\nBitter is a sharp, strong taste. It is not sweet like candy or sour like a lemon. You can taste it in some foods like dark chocolate, coffee, or some green vegetables. Many people do not like it at first, but some learn to enjoy it when they grow up. It can also be a feeling, like when you are very sad about something.
Black\n\nBlack is a color. It is the darkest color you can see. You find it in the night sky when the lights are off. Many people wear black clothes to look neat and grown-up. A black cat is an animal with fur this color. Some people feel it is a strong color, and some feel it is a little scary.
Black Death\n\nThe Black Death was a very bad sickness a long time ago. It made people feel hot and get big bumps on their body. It spread from person to person very fast. Many people got sick and died. It happened in places far away, like Europe. Today, doctors have medicine to help, so it is not as scary.
Black hole\n\nA black hole is a place in space where gravity pulls so hard that nothing can get out, not even light. It is like a deep, dark hole you cannot see. You find it far away in space, at the center of big groups of stars called galaxies. It pulls in gas, dust, and even stars that come too close. When stuff falls in, it spins around fast and gets very hot, making a bright ring that telescopes can see. One black hole sits in the middle of our own galaxy, the Milky Way.
Black pepper\n\nBlack pepper is a tiny dried berry from a climbing plant. It is dark and wrinkly, and people grind it into a fine powder. You can find it in a small shaker on the dinner table at home or in a restaurant. It is used to add a hot, sharp taste to food like soup, eggs, or meat. When you smell it, it can make you sneeze. A long time ago, it was so special that people called it black gold.
Black Sea\n\nThe Black Sea is a big body of water between Europe and Asia. It looks dark blue or gray, and it is very deep in some places. Many big rivers pour fresh water into it, so the top part is not as salty as the ocean. Deep down, there is almost no air, so fish and plants cannot live there. Long ago, people in old stories sailed across it on wooden boats. Today, ships still use it to carry things from one country to another.
Blackberry\n\nA blackberry is a small, soft fruit that is dark purple or black. It is made of many tiny round parts all stuck together. You can find it growing on a bush with sharp thorns. The bush grows fast and can be seen in gardens, fields, or near fences. People pick blackberries in summer and eat them fresh or put them in pies and jam. It tastes sweet and a little sour.
Blackcurrant\n\nA blackcurrant is a tiny, dark berry. It is round and very dark purple, almost black. It grows on a bush in cool places far away. It tastes a little sour and a little sweet. People cook it with sugar to make jam and jelly. Some people put it in ice cream or cakes. It has a lot of good stuff that helps you stay healthy.
Bladder\n\nA bladder is a soft bag inside your body that holds pee. It sits low in your belly. When you drink water or juice, the liquid goes into your blood. Your kidneys clean the blood and send the extra water to the bladder. It fills up slowly, like a balloon. When it gets full, it tells your brain you need to go to the bathroom. Then the muscles around it squeeze, and the pee comes out. All animals like dogs and cats have a bladder too.
Blade\n\nA blade is a flat, thin piece of metal that is very sharp on one side. It is used to cut things like paper, food, or wood. You can find a blade in a kitchen knife, a pair of scissors, or a safety razor. A blade can be dangerous, so only grown-ups should use it. When you draw with a pencil, a small blade inside a sharpener makes the tip pointy.
Blanket\n\nA blanket is a big, soft cloth. It is flat and wide, and it feels warm and cozy. You find it on a bed or a couch. People use it to cover their body when they sleep or feel cold. A baby might have a small, fuzzy blanket to hold. At a picnic, a family sits on a blanket on the grass.
Bleeding\n\nBleeding is when blood comes out of the body. It can happen when you get a cut on your skin. Sometimes it happens inside the body where you cannot see it. A small cut bleeds just a little and stops soon. A big cut can bleed a lot and needs a grown-up to help. When you fall and scrape your knee, you see bleeding. A bandage helps stop it and keeps the cut clean.
Blindness\n\nBlindness means a person cannot see. It is like having eyes that do not work. Some blind people see a little bit, like fuzzy shapes or colors. A blind person may use a white stick to feel the ground while walking. They can also use a special dog called a guide dog to help them go places. Some blind people read with their fingers using bumpy dots called braille. A blind person can still do many things, like sing, play music, and tell stories.
Blink\n\nA blink is when your eyes close and open very fast. It happens all by itself many times every minute. It keeps your eyes wet and clean. You can also blink on purpose, like when you wink at a friend. Everyone blinks, even babies and grown-ups.
Blizzard\n\nA blizzard is a very big snowstorm. It has strong winds and lots of snow that blows around. It can happen in places where snow falls, like the northeast part of America. During a blizzard, the snow is so thick you cannot see far. It can make the air very cold, so you need to stay inside and keep warm. After it stops, people use big trucks to push the snow off the roads.
Block\n\nA block is a small, hard shape that you can hold in your hand. It can be a cube, a rectangle, or a triangle. You find blocks in a toy box or at school. Children stack blocks to build a tower or a little house. A block is often made of wood or plastic and comes in bright colors like red, blue, and yellow.
Blog\n\nA blog is like a diary on the computer. It is a place where someone writes stories or shares pictures. You can find it on the internet. People use it to tell others about their day, a fun trip, or a new toy. It is like a book that anyone can read on a screen.
Blood\n\nBlood is a red liquid inside your body. It moves through tubes called blood vessels. Your heart pushes it all around. It brings air and food to every part of you. It also takes away things your body does not need. Blood has tiny parts in it. Red parts carry air. White parts fight germs. Small sticky parts help stop cuts from bleeding. When you get a cut, you see a little blood come out.
Blood pressure\n\nBlood pressure is how hard your blood pushes on the tubes inside your body. It has two numbers, like a top number and a bottom number. A doctor or nurse checks it with a soft band that wraps around your arm. When it is too high, it can make your heart and body sick. When it is too low, you may feel dizzy or faint. Eating good food and playing outside helps keep it just right.
Blood test\n\nA blood test is a way for a doctor to look at a tiny bit of your blood. It uses a small needle to take a drop of blood from your arm or finger. The blood goes into a little tube and then to a lab. There, special machines check if you are healthy or sick. It can tell the doctor if you need more of something, like iron, or if a part of your body is not working right. Sometimes it helps find out if a medicine is helping you. A blood test is quick and feels like a tiny pinch.
Blood transfusion\n\nA blood transfusion is when a doctor gives blood to a sick person. It is a way to help the body when it has lost too much blood. The blood comes from a healthy person who shares it. The blood is kept in a cold, safe place until it is needed. It goes into the sick person through a tiny tube in the arm. This can make the person feel strong again.
Blood type\n\nBlood type is a way to sort blood into groups. It tells us what tiny marks are on the outside of your red blood cells. These marks are like name tags. Some people have A tags, some have B tags, some have both, and some have no tags. The tags help your body know which blood is yours. If you get blood with the wrong tags, your body might fight it. Doctors check blood type before giving blood to someone who is sick. There is also a plus or minus sign, like A+ or O-. That tells about another tag called Rh. If you have it, you are plus. If you do not, you are minus. People with O- blood can give blood to anyone. People with AB+ blood can get blood from anyone.
Bloom\n\nBloom is when a flower opens up. It starts as a small, closed bud. Then it slowly spreads its petals wide to show its color. You can see it in gardens, parks, and fields in spring. Bees and butterflies visit a bloom to sip sweet juice. A bloom makes the world look bright and pretty.
Blouse\n\nA blouse is a soft shirt that girls and women wear. It is often made of light cloth like cotton or silk. It can have buttons, a collar, or pretty sleeves. You might see a blouse at a party or at school. Some blouses have flowers or dots on them. A blouse looks nice with a skirt or pants.
Blow\n\nBlow means to push air out of your mouth. It can make a soft wind that you can feel on your hand. You can blow on hot soup to cool it down. It is also how you make bubbles with soap and a wand. When you blow out candles on a birthday cake, it makes the flame go away.
Blue\n\nBlue is a color that we can see. It is the color of the sky on a sunny day. It is also the color of the big, deep sea. You can find blue in many places, like on a blueberry or a blue jay bird. Some people feel calm when they look at blue. Others think of blue when they feel a little sad. You can make blue paint by mixing two other colors together.
Blue whale\n\nA blue whale is the biggest animal on Earth. It lives in the ocean and is a kind of whale. It is very long and has a blue-gray color on top and a lighter color under its belly. It eats tiny sea animals called krill that are as small as your finger. A blue whale can eat a huge amount of krill every day. Long ago, people hunted blue whales too much, and now there are not many left. Today, people keep them safe so they can live in the ocean.
Blueberry\n\nA blueberry is a small, round fruit. It is blue or purple and has a tiny crown on top. It grows on a bush in warm months. People pick it and eat it fresh. It tastes sweet with a little sour kick. You can find it in muffins, pancakes, and jam. Many kids like it in a bowl with milk.
Blues\n\nBlues is a kind of music that people play and sing. It started a long time ago in America. It often uses a guitar, a piano, or a mouth harp. The words in a blues song are often about feeling sad or having a hard time. The music has a slow, steady beat that makes you want to sway. You might hear it on the radio or at a park concert.
Board\n\nA board is a flat, hard piece of wood. It is long and wide, but not very thick. You can find it in a classroom, where a teacher writes on it with chalk. People also use it to build things like a table or a shelf. A cutting board in the kitchen is a small one for chopping food.
Board game\n\nA board game is a game you play on a flat board. It has pieces that you move around on the board. You follow rules to play. Some games use dice or cards to add a bit of luck. You can play with friends or family at a table. Chess is one board game with black and white squares. Another is checkers. Monopoly is a board game where you buy and sell pretend houses. Board games are fun to play on a rainy day.
Boarding school\n\nA boarding school is a school where children live and sleep. It has beds, a dining room, and classrooms all in one place. You can find it in many countries, like the UK or Ghana. Children learn lessons during the day and stay at night instead of going home. Some boarding schools are just for boys or just for girls, and some are for both. A child who stays there is called a boarder. In stories, a boy named Harry Potter went to a boarding school with magic.
Boat\n\nA boat is a thing that moves on top of water. It is smaller than a big ship. Some boats have a big cloth called a sail to catch the wind. Some boats have a motor that makes them go fast. People also use long sticks called oars to push a boat through the water. You can see a boat at a lake, a river, or the sea. People use it to go fishing, to ride for fun, or to carry things from one place to another.
Bobsleigh\n\nBobsleigh is a winter sport where a team rides a sled down an icy track. It looks like a long, skinny car with no wheels, and it slides on ice. You can see it at the Winter Olympics on TV. People push the sled to start, then jump in and steer it down the track. The team that finishes the fastest wins.
Body\n\nA body is the whole shape of a person or an animal. It has a head, arms, legs, and a middle part. Your body is what you live in every day. It lets you run, jump, and hug. You can see your body in a mirror. It needs food, water, and sleep to stay strong.
Body language\n\nBody language is how we talk without using words. It is the way we move our body, face, and eyes to show how we feel. You can see it when someone smiles, nods their head, or crosses their arms. It helps us know if a person is happy, sad, or angry without them saying a thing. For example, when your friend gives you a big smile and leans close, you know they are glad to see you.
Body of water\n\nA body of water is a big area of water on the ground. It can be still, like a lake, or moving, like a river. You can find it in many places, like parks, forests, or near your town. People use it for swimming, fishing, or sailing a boat. A pond in a park is a small body of water.
Bodybuilding\n\nBodybuilding is an activity where people grow their muscles big and strong. They lift heavy things over and over to make muscles bigger. Some people do it just to stay healthy, and some do it in shows. In a show, they stand on a stage and show their muscles to judges. The judges look at how the muscles look and pick a winner. A person who does bodybuilding is called a bodybuilder.
Bog\n\nA bog is a wet, spongy piece of land. It is covered in soft, squishy ground made of old dead plants. The water in it is brown and has no taste. Not many big trees grow there, but you can see small bushes and green moss. Some bogs are so big you cannot see the end. They are home to special bugs and birds that like the wet ground.
Boil\n\nA boil is a hot bubble that rises in water. It happens when water gets very, very hot. You can see it in a pot on the stove. The water moves fast and makes steam go up. When you cook pasta or eggs, you wait for the water to boil first.
Boiling\n\nBoiling is when a liquid gets so hot that it turns into a gas. You can see it when water in a pot bubbles and steam goes up. It happens all through the liquid, not just at the top. People use boiling to cook food like pasta or eggs. At home, a kettle boils water for tea. In high mountains, water boils at a lower heat, so food takes longer to cook.
Bold\n\nBold is a way to make words look thick and dark. It is used in books, on signs, and on screens to show that something is important. When you see a word in bold, your eyes stop and look at it first. It helps you find the big idea on a page.
Bolero\n\nBolero is a kind of slow music and dance. It started in Spain a long time ago. Later, people in Cuba made a new kind of bolero with a guitar. Today, people still play the music and dance to it. The dance has soft, slow steps. You might see it at a show or a party.
Bolivia\n\nBolivia is a country in South America. It has tall mountains, flat lands, and a big lake called Lake Titicaca. Many people there speak Spanish. They grow food like potatoes and corn. Some people wear colorful clothes and hats. Kids in Bolivia like to play soccer in the street.
Bolt\n\nA bolt is a small metal stick with lines on the outside. It has a flat top with six sides. You find it in tool boxes and on bikes, cars, and chairs. It holds two things together very tight when you turn it with a tool. A nut is a round piece with a hole that fits on the bolt to keep it in place.
Bomb\n\nA bomb is a thing that can break things with a big boom. It is a box or a ball with stuff inside that goes BOOM very fast. When it goes off, it can push things away and make a loud noise. Some bombs are used in wars to hurt buildings. Some are used to dig big holes in the ground. You should never touch a bomb because it can hurt you very much.
Bomber\n\nA bomber is a big airplane that drops bombs. It flies in the sky and carries heavy things that go boom on the ground. Long ago, it had many people inside to help fly and shoot guns. Now it is faster and has only one or two people. Computers do the other jobs. You might see one in a movie or a book about old wars.
Bond\n\nA bond is like a special promise to pay back money. It is a piece of paper that says someone will give you your money back later, plus a little extra. Grown-ups buy bonds from big groups like a city or a country. The big group uses the money to build things like roads or schools. Then, after some time, they pay the grown-up back with more money. It is a way to share money and help build big things.
Bone\n\nA bone is a hard, white part inside your body. It makes up your skeleton, which is like a strong frame that holds you up. Without bones, you would be soft and could not stand or walk. Bones also keep your soft parts safe. Your skull is a bone that protects your brain. Your ribs are bones that protect your heart and lungs. Bones are alive and need good food like milk to stay strong. Inside some big bones is a soft part that makes new blood for your body.
Bone fracture\n\nA bone fracture is when a bone in your body breaks. It can happen if you fall hard or hit something very strong. Sometimes the bone pokes through the skin, and you can see it. Other times the bone stays inside, and you only feel pain. A doctor takes a special picture called an X-ray to see the break. Then the doctor puts the bone back in the right place and wraps it so it stays still. Over many weeks, the bone grows back together and gets strong again.
Bonobo\n\nA bonobo is a kind of ape that looks like a monkey but has no tail. It has black fur, a dark face, and long arms. It lives in the warm, wet forests of Africa, near a big river called the Congo. Bonobos stay together in big family groups. They are very kind to each other and share hugs and touches to stay friends. They eat fruits, leaves, and sometimes small bugs. A bonobo can live for many years when people take care of it.
Boo\n\nBoo is a sound people make to surprise someone. It is a short, loud word you say when you jump out from a hiding spot. You might hear it on Halloween when kids wear costumes and try to scare each other. People also say it to a baby in a gentle way to make the baby laugh. It is a fun sound that can make people jump or smile.
Book\n\nA book is a set of paper pages held together between two covers. It has words and sometimes pictures on the pages. You can find books at home, in a library, or at a store. People read books for fun or to learn new things. A storybook tells a made-up tale, and a schoolbook helps you learn about numbers or animals. Some books are small and soft, and some are big and hard. You can even listen to a book when someone reads it out loud.
Bookcase\n\nA bookcase is a piece of furniture that holds books. It has flat shelves where you can put books standing up. You can find it in a bedroom, a living room, or a library. People use it to keep books neat and easy to find. Some bookcases are tall and some are short. You might have a small one in your room with your favorite storybooks.
Bookshelf\n\nA bookshelf is a piece of furniture that holds books. It has flat boards called shelves where you can put things. You can find it in a home, a school, or a library. People use it to keep books neat and easy to find. It can be made of wood or metal. Some are tall and some are short. You might have a small one in your room for your favorite storybooks.
Bookstore\n\nA bookstore is a shop that sells books. It has many shelves full of stories and pictures. You can find it in a town or a mall. People go there to pick a new book to read. A grown-up might buy a book for you, and you can look at the bright covers.
Boom\n\nA boom is a big, deep sound. It is loud and low, like a drum. You might hear it when thunder rolls across the sky. Sometimes a big door makes a boom when it shuts. Fireworks can also go boom in the night.
Boomerang\n\nA boomerang is a flying toy that comes back to you. It is often made of wood or plastic. It has two arms that look like a bent banana. You throw it high and fast with a spin. If you throw it the right way, it flies in a big circle and comes back to your hand. People play with it in big open parks. Some people even join clubs to throw it together.
Boot\n\nA boot is a strong shoe that covers your foot and goes up your leg. It is taller than a regular shoe. Some boots go all the way up to your knee. People wear boots to keep their feet dry in rain or snow. Some boots have long strings to tie them tight. The bottom of a boot is thick and hard so you can walk on rocks or mud. You might see boots on a rainy day or when someone goes for a walk in the woods.
Booth\n\nA booth is a small, closed space. It has walls on three sides and a roof on top. You can find a booth at a fair or a market. People use it to sell food, toys, or games. Sometimes a booth is a tiny room where you can sit and eat a snack.
Bordeaux\n\nBordeaux is a big city in a country called France. It sits next to a wide river named the Garonne. Many people live there, and it is very old. You can see old stone buildings and big bridges. It is famous for a red or purple drink made from grapes, called wine. People also go there to look at pretty art and old things in museums. A long, long time ago, kings and queens lived near it.
Border\n\nA border is a line that shows where one place ends and another place starts. It can be a line on a map or a real fence on the ground. You find borders between countries, like the line between the United States and Canada. People use borders to know which country they are in. When you go from one country to another, you cross the border. At a border, a guard may check your papers to let you through.
Bore\n\nBore is a feeling you get when nothing is fun. It happens when you sit still and have no toy or game. You might feel it on a long car ride or a rainy day. When you feel this way, your body feels heavy and your eyes look around for something to do. A friend or a new story can make it go away.
Bored\n\nBored is a feeling you get when nothing feels fun. It is like a big yawn inside your head. You might feel it when you have to sit still for a long time, or when your toys do not seem exciting. It can happen at home, in a car, or on a rainy day. When you feel bored, you can find a new game, draw a picture, or ask a friend to play. The feeling goes away when you start doing something you like.
Boring\n\nBoring is a feeling you get when something is not fun or new. It is like when you sit still for a long time with nothing to do. You might feel it when a grown-up talks too long or when a toy does the same thing over and over. When you feel boring, your body might get wiggly or your eyes might look around for something else. A good way to fix it is to find a game, a book, or a friend to play with.
Born\n\nBorn means you came into the world. It is the day you started to be a person. When a baby is born, it comes out of its mommy's tummy. Everyone has a birthday, which is the day they were born. On that day, people sing a happy song and give presents. A born baby is very small and needs lots of love.
Borneo\n\nBorneo is a very big island. It is the third biggest island in the whole world. It has thick, old forests with tall trees. Many animals live there, like big orange monkeys called orangutans, elephants, and colorful birds. Three countries share the island: Indonesia, Malaysia, and a small country called Brunei. Some people cut down the trees, and that hurts the forest.
Borobudur\n\nBorobudur is a very old stone building in a country called Indonesia. It is made of gray stone and has many flat floors that go up like a big cake. On the walls, there are many pictures carved into the stone. At the very top, there is a big round part with many bell-shaped stones. Inside some of those stones, there are statues of a man sitting quietly. Long ago, people used it as a quiet place to think and pray. Now, many people from all over the world come to see it and walk up its steps.
Borrow\n\nBorrow means you take something from someone for a little while. You must give it back when you are done. You can borrow a toy from a friend at school. You can borrow a book from the library. When you borrow, you say thank you and take good care of it.
Boss\n\nA boss is the person in charge at a job. He tells other workers what to do and helps them when they have a problem. You might see a boss in a store, a restaurant, or an office. He makes sure the work gets done and everyone is safe. A boss can be a man or a woman. Sometimes a boss is called a manager.
Boston\n\nBoston is a big city by the sea. It has tall buildings, old streets, and many parks. You can find it in a place called Massachusetts. Many people live there and speak with a special way of talking. It has a big green park where kids play and a long path called the Freedom Trail. You can see old houses and a big market with food. In the fall, the leaves turn red and yellow. It is also home to a famous baseball team that wears red socks.
Botany\n\nBotany is the study of plants. It is a kind of science that looks at how plants live and grow. People who study botany are called botanists. They look at flowers, trees, grass, and all green things. They learn how a plant makes food from sunlight and how it drinks water from the ground. You can see botany in a garden or a park when you watch a seed turn into a big plant.
Botfly\n\nA botfly is a kind of fly. It looks like a small, fuzzy bee. It lives in warm places with lots of animals. A botfly lays tiny eggs on an animal's skin. When the eggs hatch, the baby bug grows under the skin. It makes a little bump that can hurt. After some time, it comes out and flies away.
Both\n\nBoth means two things together. It is a word you use when you talk about two people, two animals, or two things at the same time. You can say, "I like both apples and bananas." That means you like the apple and you also like the banana. When you have two hands, you can hold a toy in both hands. If you and your friend want the same snack, you can share it so both of you are happy.
Botswana\n\nBotswana is a country in the south part of Africa. It is a big piece of land with no sea touching it. Much of it is dry and sandy, like a big desert. Some parts have water and green plants where animals live. People there find shiny stones called diamonds deep under the ground. Many visitors come to see wild animals like elephants and lions.
Bottle\n\nA bottle is a tall, round thing that can hold water or other drinks. It has a small hole at the top and a cap to close it. You can find bottles in the kitchen, at the store, or in your lunch box. People use it to carry water when they are thirsty. A baby drinks milk from a small bottle with a soft top.
Bottom\n\nA bottom is the lowest part of something. It is the part that is under everything else. You find it at the very end, like the bottom of a cup or the bottom of a box. When you sit on a chair, your body touches the bottom of the chair. If you drop a toy, it falls to the bottom of the floor.
Bounce\n\nBounce means to jump up and down or spring back. It happens when something hits a surface and pushes away again. You can see a ball bounce on the floor or a trampoline. When you drop a rubber ball, it comes back up fast. A bounce can be small, like a pebble on water, or big, like a kangaroo hopping. It is a fun way to move and play.
Bouncy\n\nBouncy is a way to say something can jump back up. A ball is bouncy when you drop it and it comes right back. A bed can be bouncy if you jump on it and it pushes you up. You can find bouncy things at the park, like a trampoline. When you sit on a bouncy chair, it feels soft and springy.
Bovid\n\nA bovid is an animal with a split hoof. It has two big toes on each foot that make the hoof look like two parts. You can find it on farms and in wild places all over the world, except very cold or far-away lands. It eats grass and plants, and its tummy has special parts to break down the food slowly. Cows, sheep, and goats are bovids that people keep for milk and wool.
Bow\n\nA bow is a tool made of a curved stick and a string. It looks like a half circle with a tight line from one end to the other. You can find it in stories about knights and hunters. People pull the string back and let go to shoot an arrow far away. A toy bow and arrow set is something you might play with in the backyard.
Bow (weapon)\n\nA bow is a tool that shoots arrows. It is a long, bent stick with a tight string tied to both ends. You can see it in games or in old stories about knights. To use it, you put an arrow on the string, pull it back, and let go. The arrow flies far and fast. A long time ago, people used it to find food and in fights.
Bowl\n\nA bowl is a round dish that is open at the top. It has a deep inside part where you can put food or liquid. You can find bowls in the kitchen at home. People use a bowl to hold soup, cereal, rice, or snacks. A bowl can be made of plastic, glass, or clay. When you eat breakfast, you might pour milk and cereal into a bowl.
Bowling\n\nBowling is a game where you roll a heavy ball. The ball has three holes for your fingers. You roll it down a long wooden floor to knock down ten pins. The pins stand at the far end like tall white bottles. If you knock them all down, you get a strike. If you miss, the ball can fall into a gutter on the side. People play it at a bowling alley with friends and family. They wear special shoes and take turns. The person with the most points wins.
Box\n\nA box is a thing that can hold other things inside. It has flat sides, a bottom, and sometimes a top that closes. You can find boxes in many places, like at home, in a store, or at school. People use it to keep toys, clothes, or food safe and tidy. A shoebox is one kind you might see in your closet.
Boxing\n\nBoxing is a sport where two people fight with their hands. It happens inside a square space with ropes around it, called a ring. The fighters wear big soft gloves to keep their hands safe. They try to hit each other on the head and body. A fight has short parts called rounds. Each round is a few minutes long. The person who hits more and harder wins. Sometimes a fighter falls down and cannot get up. That is called a knockout, and the other person wins right away. People watch boxing to see who is strong and fast.
Boy\n\nA boy is a young person who is not a man yet. He has a body that is still growing. You can see boys at school, at the park, and at home. He often likes to run, jump, and play rough games like soccer. Many boys wear pants and have short hair. The color blue is often used for a boy, like a blue blanket for a new baby. A boy can have a name like Tom or Sam. When he grows up, he becomes a man.
Boyfriend\n\nA boyfriend is a boy who is a special friend. He is someone you like to play with, talk to, and share fun times. You might see him at school, at the park, or at a party. He can make you laugh and feel happy. Sometimes you hold hands or give a hug. A boyfriend is like a best friend who is a boy.
Bracelet\n\nA bracelet is a pretty circle you wear around your wrist. It can be made of shiny metal, colorful beads, string, or soft rubber. You can find it in a store or make one at home with your friends. People wear it to look nice or to remember someone special. A bracelet can jingle when you move your hand. Some have small charms that hang down and sparkle.
Brahma\n\nBrahma is a god in stories from India. He is the one who made the whole world and everything in it. People draw him with four faces so he can see everywhere at once. He also has four arms and holds a water pot, a spoon, a book, and a string of beads. You can see his statue in some temples with colorful flowers around it.
Brahmaputra River\n\nThe Brahmaputra River is a very long river in Asia. It starts high up in the cold mountains of Tibet. It flows through three big lands: Tibet, India, and Bangladesh. In the spring, ice on the mountains melts and makes the river grow very big. Sometimes the water spills over the land and floods the fields. The river meets another big river called the Ganges, and together they spread out into a wide, flat shape before reaching the big sea. Many people live near it and use its water for their farms.
Brahmic\n\nBrahmic is a big family of writing. It is a way people draw letters to make words. You can find it in many places like India, Thailand, and Tibet. Many people use it to write their language every day. If you see round and curly letters on a sign, it might be Brahmic.
Brahmic Scripts\n\nBrahmic scripts are a big family of writing signs. They are used to write many languages in India and nearby lands. Each sign stands for a sound, and the signs have round and curvy shapes. You can see them on street signs, in books, and on food packages. Many children learn to read and write with them in school.
Braille\n\nBraille is a way of writing that people who cannot see use to read with their fingers. It is made of tiny raised dots on paper. You find it on signs in some buildings, like next to a door or on an elevator button. A person moves a finger over the dots to feel letters and words. For example, a book with Braille has pages full of these little bumps instead of flat ink letters.
Brain\n\nA brain is a soft, wrinkly part inside your head. It looks like a big gray walnut. It sits safely inside the hard bones of your skull. It helps you think, learn, and feel happy or sad. It also tells your body what to do, like moving your legs to run or your mouth to smile. Even when you sleep, it keeps your heart beating and your lungs breathing. All animals with a backbone have a brain, but some tiny sea animals do not.
Brain stem\n\nThe brain stem is a small part at the back of your brain. It looks like a short, thick tube that connects your brain to your back cord. You cannot see it because it is deep inside your head. It does very important jobs without you even thinking. It tells your body to breathe air in and out. It keeps your heart beating all day and night. It also helps you swallow food and blink your eyes. Without it, your body would not work.
Brake\n\nA brake is a tool that makes something slow down or stop. It is found on cars, bikes, and even some toys. When you push a pedal or pull a lever, it presses hard against a wheel. This makes the wheel turn slower until it stops. A bike has brakes on the handlebars that you squeeze with your hands. Cars have brakes that work when you push a pedal with your foot. Brakes help keep people safe by stopping things from moving too fast.
Branch\n\nA branch is a long, woody arm that grows out from a tree trunk. It has smaller sticks and green leaves on it. You can see branches on trees in a park, a forest, or your own backyard. A branch holds leaves up to the sun so the tree can make food. Birds often sit on a branch and build their nests there. In fall, the leaves on a branch may turn red, yellow, or orange before they drop.
Brand\n\nA brand is a special name or picture that tells you who made a thing. It is like a sticker on your toy or a sign on a store. When you see the same brand on a box of cereal, you know what it will taste like. A brand helps you pick your favorite things, like a certain kind of cookie or a pair of shoes. It makes one thing easy to remember among many others.
Braslia\n\nBraslia is a big city in the country of Brazil. It is the capital, where the leaders work. From the sky, it looks like a bird or a plane. It has a big lake and many wide roads. People live and work there, and many visitors come to see the tall buildings.
Brass\n\nBrass is a shiny, gold-colored metal. It is made by mixing two other metals: copper and zinc. It is very strong and does not rust easily. People use it to make things like door handles, musical horns, and pretty buttons. You might see it on a trumpet or a shiny key at home.
Brass instrument\n\nA brass instrument is a shiny tool that makes music when you blow into it. It has a small cup at one end where you put your lips. You make a buzzing sound with your lips, and the long metal tube makes the sound big and loud. It has round buttons called valves that you press to change the sound. You can see it in a marching band at a parade, where people walk and play happy songs together.
Brave\n\nBrave is a feeling you have when you do something even though it is scary. It is like a little light inside you that helps you try new things. You can be brave when you go down a big slide for the first time. You can be brave when you say sorry after a mistake. Being brave does not mean you are not scared. It means you do the thing anyway. A firefighter is brave when they run into a hot place to help someone. A child is brave when they start at a new school. Everyone can be brave, even if their hands shake a little.
Brazil\n\nBrazil is a big country in South America. It has many trees and a huge forest called the Amazon. Many people live there, and they speak Portuguese. The biggest city is São Paulo, and the capital is Brasília. People in Brazil love to play soccer. They also have big parties with music and dancing. The Amazon River runs through it, and it is very long. You can find many colorful birds and animals in the forest.
Brazil nut\n\nA Brazil nut is a big, hard seed that grows on a tall tree. It has a dark brown shell that feels bumpy and rough. Inside the shell, the nut is smooth and light brown. The tree lives in the Amazon rainforest, where it is very hot and wet. People crack the shell open to eat the nut. It tastes creamy and a little sweet. You might find Brazil nuts in a bag of mixed nuts at the store.
Brazilian jiu-jitsu\n\nBrazilian jiu-jitsu is a way of fighting and playing on the ground. It is a sport where two people try to hold each other down. They wear a special jacket and pants called a gi, or sometimes just a tight shirt. You can see it in a gym with soft mats on the floor. People use it to learn how to stay safe and strong.
Bread\n\nBread is a soft food that you can eat. It is made from flour and water mixed together and then baked in a hot oven. It can be white or brown, and it feels a little like a sponge. You can find it in a store or a bakery. People eat it for breakfast with butter or jam. You can also use it to make a sandwich with cheese or meat inside. Sometimes it is cut into slices and made warm and crispy in a toaster.
Breadfruit\n\nBreadfruit is a big green fruit that grows on a tree. It is round and bumpy on the outside. The tree grows in hot, sunny places near the ocean. People cook the fruit and eat it because it is soft and filling, like a potato. You can also make flour from it to bake bread. A long time ago, people carried the tree to new islands so they could grow food there.
Break\n\nA break is a short time when you stop doing something. It is like a little rest. You take a break after you play hard or work on a puzzle. During a break, you can sit down, drink water, or look out the window. After a break, you feel ready to play again. At school, the teacher says it is time for a break so everyone can rest.
Breakfast\n\nBreakfast is the first meal you eat in the morning. It comes after a long sleep when your tummy is empty. People eat many different foods for it. Some kids have cereal with milk and a banana. Other kids eat toast with jam or eggs. In some places, people eat rice or warm soup. It gives you energy to run, play, and learn at school.
Breakfast cereal\n\nBreakfast cereal is a food you eat in the morning. It is made from grains like wheat, corn, or oats. It comes in many shapes, like little circles, squares, or puffs. You pour it into a bowl and add cold milk on top. Some cereal is sweet and tastes like honey or fruit. Kids like to eat it before school. You can find boxes of it at the grocery store.
Breakup\n\nA breakup is when two people who were very close decide not to be together anymore. It can happen when one person feels sad or upset in the friendship or love. Sometimes both people feel this way and agree to stop being a pair. After a breakup, a person may cry or feel very sad for a while. They need time to feel happy again. A child might see a big brother or sister go through a breakup and notice they stay in their room more.
Breast\n\nA breast is a soft part on the front of the chest. It is round and has a small bump in the middle called a nipple. Both boys and girls are born with breasts. When a girl grows up, her breasts get bigger. A mom can make milk in her breasts to feed a baby. A dad has breasts too, but they stay small and do not make milk.
Breastfeeding\n\nBreastfeeding is when a mom feeds her baby milk from her body. The milk comes from her chest, and the baby drinks it with its mouth. This milk is the best food for a new baby. It helps the baby grow strong and healthy. Many moms do this at home, sitting in a soft chair. The baby feels warm and safe while it drinks. The milk changes as the baby gets bigger, so it always has what the baby needs. Some moms use a pump to take the milk out and save it in a bottle for later.
Breath\n\nA breath is the air you take in and let out of your body. It goes in through your nose or mouth and fills your chest. You can feel it when you put your hand on your tummy. Every person and animal needs to breathe to stay alive. When you run fast, your breath gets quick and deep. When you sleep, it is slow and soft.
Breathe\n\nBreathe means to pull air into your body and push it out. It is something your body does all by itself, even when you sleep. You can feel it when you put your hand on your chest and it moves up and down. Air goes in through your nose or mouth and fills your lungs inside. It helps your body stay alive and gives you energy to run and play.
Breathing\n\nBreathing is how your body takes in air and lets it out. It happens in your chest, where two soft bags called lungs sit. When you breathe in, your chest gets bigger and air goes into the lungs. The air has a special gas that your body needs to stay alive. When you breathe out, your chest gets smaller and a different gas leaves your body. You breathe all day and all night, even when you sleep. If you run fast, you breathe faster to get more air. Your brain tells your body when to breathe without you even thinking about it.
Breed\n\nA breed is a special kind of animal that people help make. It looks a little different from other animals of the same type. For example, a poodle is a breed of dog with curly hair. A Siamese is a breed of cat with blue eyes. People called breeders pick two animals to have babies so the babies get nice traits. This is called breeding. You can see many breeds at a pet show or on a farm.
Breeze\n\nA breeze is a soft, gentle wind. It moves the air just a little bit. You can feel it on your skin when you are outside. It makes leaves on trees dance and sway. A breeze can cool you down on a warm day. It can also carry the smell of flowers or fresh grass. You might see a breeze moving a flag or a pinwheel. It is not strong like a big storm wind.
Brick\n\nA brick is a hard block that people use to build things. It is made from soft, sticky mud called clay. The clay is shaped into a block and then baked in a very hot oven until it is hard. It is usually red or brown, but it can be other colors too. People stack bricks and stick them together with a gray paste to make walls, houses, and paths. You can see bricks on the outside of many buildings and on some sidewalks.
Bridge\n\nA bridge is a thing that helps you cross over a gap. It can go over a river, a road, or a deep valley. You walk or drive on top of it. Some bridges are made of wood or stone. Big bridges are often made of strong steel. You may see a bridge when you ride in a car over a highway.
Bright\n\nBright means something gives off a lot of light. The sun is bright, and a lamp can be bright too. When you look at a bright thing, it can make you blink or squint your eyes. A bright color is easy to see, like a yellow raincoat or a red ball. Some stars at night are bright, and some are not so bright. A room with many windows feels bright and happy.
Bring\n\nTo bring means to carry something with you when you go to a place. You can bring a toy to the park or bring a snack to school. When you bring something, you hold it in your hands or put it in a bag and take it along. Your friend might say, "Please bring your book so we can read together." Bringing is a kind thing to do because you share what you have.
Brisbane\n\nBrisbane is a big city in Australia. It sits next to a long river that winds through the land. Many tall buildings stand in the city center, and you can see boats on the water. People live and work there, and kids go to school just like you. It is warm most of the year, with hot summers and mild winters. Sometimes big storms bring lots of rain. Families can visit parks, museums, and a big wheel that spins high in the air.
British\n\nBritish means from a country called Britain. It is a big island with green hills and old castles. People there speak English, just like you and me. They like to drink tea with milk and eat small sandwiches. A red bus with two floors is something you might see there. The queen or king lives in a big house called a palace.
British Empire\n\nThe British Empire was a very big group of lands ruled by Britain long ago. It had many countries across the world, like India, Canada, and Australia. People in those places had to follow British rules. Ships with British flags sailed to faraway lands to trade goods like tea and cloth. Today, the empire is gone, and those places are their own countries.
British Isles\n\nThe British Isles are a group of islands in the sea near Europe. The biggest island is called Great Britain. It has three countries on it: England, Wales, and Scotland. Another part, Northern Ireland, joins with them to make the United Kingdom. Many people live on these islands. The land has green hills, old rocks, and long rivers. A long time ago, the islands were joined to the big land, so they have many kinds of rocks and metals.
British Library\n\nThe British Library is a very big building full of books and other things to read. It is in London, a big city in England. Inside, it has millions of books, maps, and old papers. People go there to read and learn. It also keeps a copy of every new book made in the country. Some of its old books are kept in a tall glass tower in the middle of the building.
British Museum\n\nThe British Museum is a big building in London full of old and special things from all over the world. It has many rooms with statues, stones with writing, and old tools. People go there to look and learn about long-ago times. It is free to visit, so anyone can walk in and see the treasures. One famous thing inside is a big stone with three kinds of writing on it. Another is a set of marble carvings from a very old temple. The museum also has a huge round room with a tall roof where you can sit and read.
Brittany\n\nBrittany is a part of France, near the big blue ocean. It has a long, bumpy edge where the land meets the water. The weather is not too hot and not too cold, with warm summers and rainy winters. People there grow food like corn and raise pigs and chickens. A very long time ago, people put up many big, tall stones in a row, and you can still see them there today.
Broadcast\n\nA broadcast is a way to send sounds or pictures to many people at once. It uses a big machine that sends signals through the air. You can hear it on a radio or see it on a TV. When a show comes on, it is a broadcast. Many people can listen or watch at the same time.
Broadcasting\n\nBroadcasting is a way to send shows and music to many people at once. It travels through the air as invisible waves, or through a wire, or from a big dish in space. You see it when you watch TV or listen to the radio at home. Some stations are paid for by the government, and they make shows for kids and learning. Other stations sell short ads to make money. There are also small stations run by people in your town, where they play music and talk about things nearby.
Broadway theatre\n\nBroadway theatre is a place where people act out stories on a big stage. It is in New York City, on a long street called Broadway. The room has many seats so lots of people can watch. Actors sing, dance, and talk to tell a story. Bright lights shine on the stage. The people watching clap when the show is over. Many families go to see a show together.
Broccoli\n\nBroccoli is a green vegetable that looks like a tiny tree. It has a thick stem and a top made of many small green bumps called florets. You can find it at the grocery store or in a garden. People cook it and eat it for dinner. It tastes a little bit like cabbage. It is very good for your body because it has vitamins that help you grow strong.
Bromeliad\n\nA bromeliad is a plant from warm places. It has long, stiff leaves that grow in a circle. Many bromeliads live in trees, not in the ground. Some kinds have a cup in the middle that holds water. A pineapple is a bromeliad you can eat. You might see a small bromeliad in a flower shop.
Bronze\n\nBronze is a hard, shiny metal that people make by mixing two other metals together. It looks a little like gold but is darker and more brown. Long ago, people used it to make tools, cups, and swords. Today, you can see it in big bells that go ding-dong and in statues in a park. It stays strong even when it gets wet, so it is good for things that sit outside in the rain.
Bronze Age\n\nThe Bronze Age is a time long ago when people learned to make tools from a strong metal called bronze. It is a mix of two metals: copper and tin. People heated the metals and shaped them into knives, axes, and pots. These tools were harder than stone or wood, so they helped people cut trees and build things. Farmers grew food like wheat and barley, and they kept sheep and cows for milk and meat. Some people became soldiers and used bronze swords. The Bronze Age happened at different times in different places, but it ended when people found an even stronger metal: iron.
Brooklyn Bridge\n\nThe Brooklyn Bridge is a very big bridge in New York City. It is made of strong ropes and stone towers. It goes over a wide river called the East River. It connects two parts of the city: Manhattan and Brooklyn. People walk, drive cars, and ride bikes across it every day. At night, lights shine on it and it looks very pretty. Many people visit to see it and take pictures.
Broom\n\nA broom is a long stick with many stiff hairs at one end. It is used to sweep dirt and dust off the floor. You can find a broom in a closet or a corner at home. People push it across the floor to make the room clean. Some brooms have soft hairs for inside, and some have hard hairs for outside.
Brother\n\nA brother is a boy who has the same mom and dad as you. He can be older or younger than you. He lives in the same house and shares toys and snacks. You play together, run outside, and sometimes fight over a toy. He can make you laugh when you feel sad. A brother is part of your family and you love each other.
Brown\n\nBrown is a color. It is dark and warm, like the color of tree trunks. You can make it by mixing red, yellow, and blue paint together. Many things in nature are brown, like dirt, wood, and chocolate. A teddy bear is often brown.
Brown algae\n\nBrown algae are a big group of plants that live in the sea. They look brown because of a special color inside them. You can find them in cold ocean water, often stuck to rocks at the beach. They are food for many sea animals and give them a place to hide. Some kinds grow very tall, like an underwater forest. People also pick them to eat.
Brown bear\n\nA brown bear is a big, strong animal with thick brown fur. It has a round body, four wide paws, and a short tail. It lives in forests and mountains in many places like Alaska, Canada, and Russia. It eats many things: berries, honey, fish, and small animals. A brown bear sleeps in a den all winter long. In spring, it wakes up and looks for food. You might see a brown bear in a picture book or a zoo.
Brown dwarf\n\nA brown dwarf is a round thing in space. It is like a star but too small to shine bright. It glows a little, with a soft pink-purple color. You cannot see it with just your eyes because it is very far away and very dim. Scientists use big telescopes to find it. It is bigger than a planet but smaller than a real star.
Brown rat\n\nA brown rat is a big, furry animal with a long tail. It has brown or gray fur, small ears, and a pointy nose. It lives in cities and towns, often near people, in places like basements or sewers. It eats bits of food it finds on the ground. You might see one running fast at night near a trash can.
Bruise\n\nA bruise is a blue or purple spot on your skin. It happens when you bump into something hard. Blood leaks out under the skin and makes the spot. It can hurt a little, but it is not dangerous. Over time, it changes color from blue to green to yellow and then goes away. Putting something cold on it right after the bump helps it stay small. You might get one on your knee when you fall while playing.
Brunei\n\nBrunei is a small country on a big island called Borneo. It is in a part of the world called Southeast Asia. It has green trees and a blue sea next to it. The king of Brunei is called a sultan. He lives in a big palace. The country has a lot of oil under the ground. People sell the oil to get money. Many people in Brunei follow the religion of Islam. They speak Malay and English. The capital city is Bandar Seri Begawan. It has pretty buildings and a big mosque.
Brush\n\nA brush is a tool with many soft or stiff hairs at one end. It has a long part to hold, called the handle. You can find brushes at home, in school, or in an art box. People use a brush to clean things, like a toothbrush for teeth or a big brush for the floor. Some brushes are for painting. An artist dips it in paint and makes smooth lines on paper. A paint brush can be flat, round, or pointy. You may have a small brush in your paint set.
Bubble\n\nA bubble is a tiny ball of air with a thin, shiny skin around it. It is round and clear, but it can show rainbow colors when light hits it. You can make bubbles with soap and water by blowing through a little wand. It floats in the air and moves softly with the wind. When you touch it, it pops and disappears. You often see bubbles at bath time or at a birthday party.
Bucket\n\nA bucket is a round, open container. It has a handle on top so you can carry it. You find it in a kitchen, a bathroom, or a garden. People use it to hold water, sand, or toys. A child might use a small bucket at the beach to build a sandcastle.
Buckwheat\n\nBuckwheat is a plant with seeds that people can eat like rice or oatmeal. Its seeds are small and have three sides, like tiny little pyramids. You can find buckwheat in some breakfast foods, like pancakes or porridge. People also use it to make noodles in some countries. It is not the same as wheat, even though the name sounds like it.
Budapest\n\nBudapest is a big city in a country called Hungary. It sits next to a long river called the Danube. A long time ago, three small towns joined to make one big city. It has old castles, tall churches, and a very big house where people make laws. Many people visit to see the pretty buildings and to swim in warm pools of water. You can ride a train under the ground there, too.
Buddhism\n\nBuddhism is a way of thinking and living that started long ago in India. It is based on the ideas of a man named the Buddha. He was a real person who wanted to understand why people feel sad or hurt. He sat very still and thought for a long time until he found a way to feel calm and happy inside. People who follow his ideas are called Buddhists. They try to be kind, not hurt others, and keep their minds quiet. Many Buddhists sit in a special quiet way called meditation. It helps them feel peaceful. You can see a statue of the Buddha in some gardens or homes. He often sits with his eyes closed and a soft smile.
Buddhist\n\nBuddhist is a person who follows the teachings of Buddha. They believe in being kind, calm, and not hurting others. You might see them sitting quietly with their eyes closed, which is called meditation. They often go to a quiet place called a temple to learn and pray. Some Buddhists wear orange or red robes. They try to be happy with simple things and help people who are sad.
Budgerigar\n\nA budgerigar is a small, colorful bird. It has a round head, a short hooked beak, and a long flat tail. Its feathers can be green, yellow, blue, or white. It lives in dry places in Australia. Many people keep it as a pet at home. It is very smart and can learn to copy words people say.
Buenos Aires\n\nBuenos Aires is a big city in a country called Argentina. It has many streets, tall buildings, and old houses. You can find it near a wide river, and many people live there. It is the most important city in that country, where the leaders work. In summer, it is hot and sticky, and in winter, it is cool but not too cold. Snow almost never falls there. People speak Spanish, but some also speak English. Many visitors come to see the pretty buildings and parks.
Bug\n\nA bug is a tiny animal with six legs. It has a hard shell on the outside and two feelers on its head. You can find bugs in the grass, on flowers, or under rocks. Some bugs fly with wings, and some crawl on the ground. A ladybug is a red bug with black spots that you might see in a garden.
Build\n\nTo build means to make something by putting parts together. You can build with blocks, sticks, or big stones. People build houses, bridges, and tall towers. When you stack blocks to make a castle, you are building. It is fun to build things with your hands.
Builder\n\nA builder is a person who makes houses and buildings. He uses tools like a hammer, a saw, and a drill. He wears a hard hat to keep his head safe. You can see a builder at a place where a new house is going up. He puts up walls, a roof, and windows so people can live inside. Sometimes he works with big trucks that carry wood and bricks.
Building\n\nA building is a place with walls and a roof. It has a door so people can go in and out. Windows let light come inside. Some buildings are small, like a house where a family lives. Other buildings are tall, like a big store or a school. People work, play, eat, and sleep inside buildings. A building keeps you safe from rain, wind, and hot sun.
Bulb\n\nA bulb is a round glass thing that makes light. It has a thin wire inside that glows when you turn it on. You find bulbs in lamps on the ceiling or on a table. People use bulbs to see in the dark at night. A bulb can be small like in a night-light or big like in a kitchen.
Bulbul\n\nA bulbul is a small bird that sings. It has soft feathers and a short beak. You can find it in warm places like Africa and Asia. It lives in trees and bushes, and it makes a happy sound. Some bulbuls are green or brown, and they like to eat fruit and bugs.
Bulgaria\n\nBulgaria is a country in Europe. It is near the sea and has mountains and rivers. People there speak a language called Bulgarian. The biggest city is Sofia. Many people live in towns and villages. Some grow food like tomatoes and grapes. You can see old stone houses and big churches there.
Bullfrog\n\nA bullfrog is a big frog that lives near water. It has a wide, flat head, a green or brown body with dark spots, and big back legs for jumping. You can find it in ponds, lakes, and swamps. It sits at the edge of the water and waits for food. It eats bugs, small fish, and even tiny birds. At night, the boy bullfrog makes a loud, deep roar to call a girl bullfrog. A girl bullfrog can lay many, many eggs in the water. The eggs turn into tadpoles that swim and grow. People sometimes eat the legs of a bullfrog.
Bullying\n\nBullying is when someone is mean to another person over and over. It can be hitting, pushing, or saying hurtful words. It can happen at school, at the park, or even on a computer. A bully wants to make the other person feel small or scared. If you see bullying, you can help by telling a grown-up you trust. No one should feel alone or afraid.
Bumblebee\n\nA bumblebee is a big, fuzzy bee that flies from flower to flower. It has a round, hairy body with black and yellow stripes. You can see it in gardens, parks, and fields when the weather is warm. It collects sweet juice and yellow dust from flowers to feed its family. It makes a loud buzzing sound when it flies. A bumblebee can sting, but it almost never does unless it is very scared.
Bump\n\nA bump is a small, raised spot on something flat. It can be on your skin, like when you hit your head and a little lump grows. It can also be on a road, like a speed bump that makes cars go slow. You might see a bump on a log or a rock. When you touch it, it feels round and a little bit high.
Bumpy\n\nBumpy means not smooth. It has lots of little hills and dips. A road with many rocks is bumpy. When you ride a bike on it, you go up and down. A toad's back can be bumpy too.
Bun\n\nA bun is a small, soft piece of bread. It is round and puffy, and it can be light brown or golden on top. You can find it at a bakery or a grocery store. People use it to hold a burger, a hot dog, or a sandwich. Sometimes it is sweet and has a little sugar on top. You might eat one at a picnic or a birthday party.
Bunch\n\nA bunch is a group of things that are all together. It can be a bunch of flowers tied with a string. It can be a bunch of bananas at the store. You can also have a bunch of friends to play with. When you hold many things at once, you have a bunch.
Bunny\n\nA bunny is a small, soft animal with long ears and a fluffy tail. It has four legs and likes to hop around. You can find bunnies in fields, forests, or sometimes as pets in people's homes. It eats plants like grass and carrots. A bunny wiggles its nose when it sniffs the air. Many children see a bunny in storybooks or during springtime.
Buoyancy\n\nBuoyancy is a push that makes things float in water. It is like an invisible hand that lifts things up from below. You can feel it when you try to push a ball under water and it pops back up. Big boats float because of buoyancy, even though they are very heavy. A small rock sinks because it is too heavy for the push. In the bathtub, a rubber duck floats because buoyancy holds it up.
Burger\n\nA burger is a round, flat piece of meat called a patty. It sits inside a soft bun that is cut in half. You can find it at a fast-food place or at a backyard cookout. People eat it with their hands, and they often add cheese, lettuce, tomato, and ketchup on top. A cheeseburger is a burger with a slice of cheese on the patty.
Burj Khalifa\n\nBurj Khalifa is a very, very tall building. It stands in a city called Dubai, where it is hot and sunny. It looks like a giant silver finger pointing up at the sky. People from all over the world come to see it. Inside, there are homes, offices, and a big hotel. At night, bright lights shine on it, and a big fountain with music plays outside. It is the tallest building made by people on Earth.
Burkina Faso\n\nBurkina Faso is a country in Africa. It is a big piece of land with no ocean next to it. Many people there grow food like corn and beans. The capital city is called Ouagadougou. People there speak French and other local languages. It is hot there, with a rainy time and a dry time.
Burn\n\nA burn is a hurt spot on your skin. It happens when something very hot touches you, like fire, hot water, or a hot pan. It can also happen from very cold things, electricity, or strong chemicals. A burn can make your skin red, sore, and sometimes blistered. You might get a small burn at home from touching a hot stove. If the burn is big or deep, a grown-up needs to help right away.
Burst\n\nA burst is when something breaks open all of a sudden. It can be a balloon that pops with a loud bang. It can be a pipe that cracks and water sprays out fast. You might see a burst when a bubble floats and then goes pop. A burst happens quickly and can be loud or messy.
Burundi\n\nBurundi is a small country in Africa. It has green hills and big lakes. Many people there grow food like beans and bananas. The weather is warm all year. A long river called the Nile starts in Burundi. It is one of the smallest countries in Africa.
Bus\n\nA bus is a big car that carries many people. It has a long body, many seats, and big windows. You see it on the road in towns and cities. A bus stops to let people get on and off. Some buses take children to school. Some buses go far, like to another city. A bus driver sits at the front and steers it. People pay a small coin or card to ride it.
Bush\n\nA bush is a plant that is smaller than a tree. It has many branches that grow close to the ground. You can find it in gardens, parks, and forests. People plant bushes to make their yards look pretty. Some bushes grow flowers in spring, and some have berries that birds eat. It can be trimmed into shapes like balls or boxes.
Business\n\nA business is a place where people work together. It makes things or helps people, and then sells them. Some businesses are very small, like a shop that cuts hair. Other businesses are very big, with many workers all over the world. A business can be in a building, like a store or an office. Some workers drive a truck to different places to do their job. The person who starts the business is the boss. When people buy what the business sells, the business can make money.
Bustard\n\nA bustard is a big bird that walks on the ground. It has long, strong legs and a round body. It lives in dry, grassy places in Africa and some parts of Europe. It eats leaves, seeds, fruit, and small bugs. It can also stomp on little animals to catch them. Some people let it eat the bugs that hurt their plants.
Busy\n\nBusy means you have many things to do. When you are busy, your hands and feet move a lot. You might see a busy bee flying from flower to flower. A busy street has many cars and people. When Mom is cooking dinner and talking on the phone, she is busy. It is okay to be busy, but it is also good to rest.
But\n\nA but is a small word that joins two ideas. It shows that the second idea is different from the first. You hear it when someone says, "I like ice cream, but I am full." It helps people say two things that do not match. You can use it when you want to add a new thought that changes the first one.
Butane\n\nButane is a kind of gas that burns very easily. It has no color and no smell by itself. People put it inside small metal cans. You can find it in a lighter that makes a flame when you push a button. It is also used in camping stoves to cook food outside. You must be very careful with it because it can catch fire fast.
Butter\n\nButter is a soft yellow food made from milk. It is made by shaking cream for a long time until it gets thick. People spread it on bread or use it when they bake cookies and cakes. It can also be used to fry eggs in a pan. Most butter comes from cow milk, but it can also come from sheep or goat milk. Sometimes a little salt is added to make it taste good. You keep it in the fridge so it stays cold and firm.
Butterfly\n\nA butterfly is a small flying bug with big, colorful wings. It has six legs, two feelers on its head, and a long tongue that curls up like a straw. You can see it in gardens, parks, and fields when the sun is warm. It flies from flower to flower, sipping sweet juice. Its wings have pretty patterns in red, yellow, blue, or orange. A butterfly starts as a tiny egg, then grows into a caterpillar that munches leaves. Later it wraps up in a hard shell and comes out with wings.
Button\n\nA button is a small, round thing on clothes. It is usually flat and has little holes in the middle. You find it on shirts, coats, and pants. It helps keep clothes closed. You push it through a small slit called a buttonhole. Some buttons are shiny, and some are made of plastic or wood. A button can pop off if you pull too hard, but you can sew it back on.
Buy\n\nTo buy means to give money and get something you want. When you go to a store with a grown-up, you see them buy food, toys, or clothes. They hand over coins or a card, and then the thing is theirs to take home. You can also buy a ticket to ride a bus or see a movie. Buying is how we get most things we need every day.
Buzz\n\nA buzz is a soft, humming sound. It goes on and on without stopping. You can hear it when a bee flies close by. Some toys and doorbells also make a buzz. It sounds like a little motor running.
By\n\nBy is a tiny word we use to show who did something or how something happened. It is very short, just two letters. You see it in books, on signs, and when people talk. It helps us say things like "the book by the bed" or "a story by Mom." When you walk by a friend, you move close to them. It is a helper word that makes sentences clear.
Bye\n\nBye is a short word people say when they leave. It is a friendly way to end a talk. You can wave your hand and say it with a smile. When you go home from school, you say bye to your teacher and friends. It means see you later.
Byte\n\nA byte is a tiny box inside a computer that holds one letter or number. It is made of eight even smaller parts called bits. When you type your name, each letter gets its own byte. Computers use many bytes to keep your games, pictures, and songs safe. A phone or tablet has millions of bytes inside it.
Byzantine architecture\n\nByzantine architecture is a way of building big, beautiful churches and halls. It uses round roofs called domes that sit on top of square walls. You can see it in very old cities near the sea, like Istanbul. Inside, the dome has many small windows that let light shine in like stars. The walls are often covered with tiny colored stones that make pictures of people and gold crosses. It is a style from a long, long time ago, when kings and queens ruled a big empire.
Byzantine Empire\n\nThe Byzantine Empire was a big, old country a long time ago. It had a strong city called Constantinople with tall walls. People there spoke Greek and made beautiful art with gold and tiny colored stones. They had a powerful leader called an emperor who wore a purple robe. You can see pictures of its round roofs and shiny art in some storybooks.
Cabbage\n\nA cabbage is a round, leafy vegetable that people eat. It has many thick leaves that wrap around each other into a tight ball. It can be green, red, or white. You can find it in a garden or at a grocery store. People chop it up to make crunchy salads, or they cook it in soups and stews. Some people turn it into a tangy food called sauerkraut. It is a cousin to broccoli and cauliflower.
Cabin\n\nA cabin is a small house made of wood. It has a roof, a door, and one or two windows. You can find it in the woods or by a lake. People stay in it for a short time to rest and play. It feels cozy and warm inside.
Cable television\n\nCable television is a way to watch shows on a TV. It uses a long, round wire that brings the picture and sound into your home. People pay money each month to get it. With it, you can see many different channels with cartoons, movies, and news. It is like a big box of shows that comes through the wall.
Cactus\n\nA cactus is a plant that lives in hot, dry places. It has a thick, green body that holds water inside. Instead of soft leaves, it has sharp spikes all over. These spikes keep animals from eating it. You can find a cactus in a desert, where the sun is very strong. Some people also keep a small cactus in a pot at home. It does not need much water to stay alive. A cactus can grow big flowers that are bright and pretty. Some kinds grow fruit that people can eat, like a red fruit called prickly pear.
Caecilian\n\nA caecilian is a long animal that looks like a worm or a snake. It has smooth, dark skin and no legs at all. It lives under the ground in warm, wet places like rainforests. It uses its head to dig and find bugs to eat. Some kinds have tiny eyes covered by skin, so they only see light and dark.
Caesar\n\nCaesar is a name from a very long time ago. It was the name of a strong leader in a place called Rome. He wore a white robe and a crown of leaves on his head. People remember him because he helped his city grow big. You might see his face on a coin or in a book about old times.
Cafe\n\nA cafe is a small shop where people go to sit and have a drink. It has tables and chairs inside. You can buy a warm cup of coffee, tea, or hot chocolate there. Some cafes also sell small snacks like cookies or cake. It is a nice place to meet a friend and talk. You might see one on a street corner in town.
Cage\n\nA cage is a box made of bars. It has open spaces between the bars so you can see inside. People use a cage to keep animals safe, like a pet bird or a hamster. At the zoo, big animals like lions live in a cage so they do not run away. A cage has a door that can open and close.
Caiman\n\nA caiman is an animal that looks like a big lizard. It has a long body, short legs, a long tail, and a big mouth with many teeth. It lives in rivers and lakes in South America. It moves slowly and can live for a very long time. It is a cousin of the alligator. You might see one at a zoo or in a picture book about wild animals.
Cairo\n\nCairo is a very big city in the country of Egypt. It sits next to a long river called the Nile. The weather is hot and sunny almost every day. Many people live there, more than any other city in Africa. Long ago, kings built giant stone triangles called pyramids near Cairo. People come from all over the world to see them. Inside the city, there is a big building full of old treasures from ancient kings. Cairo is a busy place with many cars, shops, and tall buildings.
Cake\n\nA cake is a sweet food you can eat. It is soft and fluffy inside. You bake it in a hot oven. People make it for happy days like a birthday. It can have sweet, creamy stuff on top called icing. Sometimes it has fruit or little candles on it. You see it at a party when someone turns a year older.
Calculator\n\nA calculator is a small machine that helps you with math. It has buttons with numbers and signs on them. You can find it at school, at home, or on a phone. It can add, take away, times, and split numbers for you. When you push the buttons, the answer shows up on a little screen. Some calculators are so tiny they fit in your pocket.
Calculus\n\nCalculus is a kind of math. It helps people understand how things change and move. You can use it to figure out how fast a car goes or how a ball curves in the air. Grown-ups learn it in school when they are older. It is like a tool for solving tricky puzzles about shapes and motion.
Calendar\n\nA calendar is a chart that shows the days of the year. It has pages or boxes for each month, with little squares for each day. You can find it on a wall at home, on a desk, or on a phone. People use it to know what day it is and to plan fun things like a birthday party. It helps you remember when to go to school or when a holiday is coming. A calendar shows the months, like January or June, and the days of the week, like Monday or Saturday.
Calgary\n\nCalgary is a big city in a place called Canada. It sits near tall, rocky mountains. Many people work with oil and gas there, so it has lots of tall buildings. Around the city, farmers raise cows on big fields. In winter, it gets very cold, but a warm wind sometimes blows in and makes the day feel nice. Every year, people have a big party called the Stampede with rides, cowboys, and horse races. Long ago, the Winter Olympics came to Calgary. It also has a hockey team called the Flames.
California\n\nCalifornia is a big piece of land in the west of the United States. It has tall mountains, hot dry deserts, and a long blue ocean coast. Many people live there, more than in any other state. It grows a lot of fruit and nuts that we eat. In California, you can see big movie signs in Hollywood and a happy mouse at Disneyland.
Call\n\nA call is when you use your voice to say something to someone who is not right next to you. It can be loud like shouting across a playground, or quiet like talking into a phone. People make a call to share news, ask for help, or just say hello. You might call your friend to come over and play. A call can also be the sound an animal makes, like a bird singing in a tree.
Calligraphy\n\nCalligraphy is a way of writing that looks very pretty. It uses a brush or a pen with a special tip. People make letters with thick and thin lines. You can see it on fancy cards, signs, and in old books. In some places, children learn to do it at school. It is like drawing with letters.
Callisto (moon)\n\nCallisto is a big moon that goes around the planet Jupiter. It is made of rock and ice. Its surface is very old and covered with many round dents called craters. It is one of the biggest moons we know. It is far from Jupiter and takes a long time to go all the way around it.
Calm\n\nCalm is a quiet, happy feeling. It is when your body is still and your mind is not worried. You can feel calm when you sit by a lake and watch the water. You can also feel calm when you take a slow, deep breath. A calm room has soft light and no loud noises. Many people like to feel calm before they go to sleep.
Calorie\n\nA calorie is a tiny bit of energy. It is not something you can see or touch. You get it from the food you eat. Your body uses it to run, play, and grow. If you eat more of it than you use, your body keeps the extra as fat. Food boxes sometimes show big numbers for it, but that just means a lot of tiny bits.
Cambodia\n\nCambodia is a country in a warm part of the world. It has green forests, big rivers, and old stone buildings. Many people live there and grow rice in wet fields. They also eat noodle soup and ride boats on the water. A famous old temple called Angkor Wat is on its flag.
Camel\n\nA camel is a big animal that lives in hot, sandy deserts. It has a thick coat of hair, long legs, and a hump on its back. The hump stores fat, which it uses for energy when there is no food. It has long eyelashes and bushy eyebrows to keep sand out of its eyes. People ride it and use it to carry heavy things. It can also give milk and wool. A baby camel is called a calf and can run soon after it is born.
Camellia\n\nA camellia is a plant with big, pretty flowers. It has shiny green leaves that stay on all year. The flowers can be white, pink, or red. It grows in gardens and parks. People like to look at the flowers in late winter and early spring. Some kinds of camellia leaves are used to make tea.
Camera\n\nA camera is a tool that takes pictures. It is a small box that keeps light out until you press a button. On the front, it has a round glass part called a lens that lets light in. Inside, it has a special part that saves the picture. Some cameras are big and some are very small, like the one on a phone. When you press the button, it opens a tiny door for a quick moment to catch the light and make a picture. You can look at the picture right away on a screen. People use a camera to remember happy times, like a birthday party or a trip to the park.
Cameroon\n\nCameroon is a big country in the middle of Africa. It has many trees, rivers, and green hills. Many people live there, and they speak lots of different languages. The biggest city is called Douala, and it sits next to the big blue ocean. In some parts, people speak French, and in other parts, they speak English. Children in Cameroon like to play soccer and eat yummy fruits like mangoes.
Camouflage\n\nCamouflage is a way animals hide by looking like the things around them. It helps an animal blend in so other animals do not see it easily. A tiger has stripes that look like tall grass, so it can hide when it hunts. Many animals are dark on top and light on the bottom, which makes them hard to spot from above or below. Some animals change color to match new places, like a chameleon turning brown on a tree branch. Camouflage keeps animals safe or helps them find food without being seen.
Camp\n\nA camp is a place where people sleep outside, away from home. It has tents or small wood houses. You can find a camp in a forest, by a lake, or near a mountain. People go there to play, cook food on a fire, and look at stars at night. Some kids go to a summer camp with friends and sing songs together.
Campfire\n\nA campfire is a small fire that people make outside. It has bright orange and yellow flames that dance and crackle. You can find it at a campsite, in a backyard, or on a beach. People sit around it to stay warm, cook food like marshmallows, and tell stories. You might see one when your family goes camping.
Camping\n\nCamping is when people sleep outside in a tent or a special car. It is a fun trip away from home. You can see trees, stars, and maybe a lake. People cook simple food on a fire. It is often done in warm weather. Some people camp to see new places and have an adventure.
Can\n\nA can is a round metal box with a lid. It is shiny and smooth, and it can be short or tall. You find cans in the kitchen or at the store. People put food like soup, beans, or fruit inside a can to keep it fresh. When you open a can, you hear a pop sound. After the food is gone, you can put the empty can in the recycling bin.
Canada\n\nCanada is a very big country. It is in the top part of North America. It has three big oceans touching its land: one on the left, one on the right, and one on top. Much of it is cold in winter, but the south part gets warm in summer. Many people live in big cities near the bottom, like Toronto and Vancouver. The top part has snow and ice and very few people. Canada has many trees, lakes, and animals. People there speak English or French. Its flag has a red maple leaf in the middle.
Canal\n\nA canal is a long path of water made by people. It looks like a straight river with hard sides made of stone or concrete. You can find a canal between two big lakes or two oceans. Boats and big ships use it to carry heavy things from one place to another. The Panama Canal is one that lets ships go from one big ocean to another without going all the way around.
Canary Islands\n\nThe Canary Islands are a group of seven big islands and many tiny ones in the ocean near Africa. They belong to the country of Spain. The islands were made by fire mountains called volcanoes a long, long time ago. On one island, the ground is black from old lava. The tallest mountain is on an island called Tenerife. It is a sleeping volcano. The weather is warm and sunny, so many people visit to swim at the beach. Farmers there grow sweet yellow bananas and other fruits. Some people on one island can talk by whistling, and kids learn it at school.
Cancer\n\nCancer is a sickness inside the body. It happens when some tiny parts of the body grow too fast and do not stop. These parts can make a lump that should not be there. Doctors help people with cancer by giving special medicine. Many people get better with rest and care.
Candle\n\nA candle is a stick made of wax with a string in the middle. It is long and round, and the string sticks out at the top. You can find candles in homes, on birthday cakes, or in churches. When you light the string, it makes a small, warm fire that gives light. The fire melts the wax, and the candle gets shorter as it burns. You can blow on the fire to put it out. Some candles smell nice, like flowers or cookies.
Candy\n\nCandy is a sweet food that tastes very good. It comes in many colors, shapes, and sizes. You can find it in stores or make it at home. People eat it as a snack, but not too much because it has a lot of sugar. Some candy is hard and some is soft and chewy. It can taste like fruit, chocolate, or mint.
Canning\n\nCanning is a way to keep food safe to eat for a long time. It puts food into a can or a glass jar and closes it tight so no air can get in. You can find canned food at the store, like cans of beans or fruit. People use canning to save food from the garden so they can eat it later. A can of peaches is one example you might see at home.
Cannon\n\nA cannon is a big, heavy tube that shoots heavy balls very far. It is made of strong metal and has a long, round opening at the front. Long ago, people used it in battles to break walls or hit far-away enemies. They put black powder and a big iron ball inside the tube, then lit the powder. The powder went BOOM and pushed the ball out fast. Today, big metal cars called tanks and big boats called warships carry cannons. You might see a cannon in a park or a museum, sitting still and quiet.
Cannot\n\nCannot is a word that means you are not able to do something. It is made by putting the words can and not together. When you say you cannot reach a high shelf, it means the shelf is too high for your hand. When you cannot find your shoe, it means the shoe is not where you look. It is a word people use every day when something is too hard or not there.
Canoe\n\nA canoe is a small boat that moves on water. It is long and pointy at both ends. You can sit or kneel inside it. People use a stick called a paddle to push it through the water. You can see a canoe on a lake or a calm river. Some people use it for fun, and some use it to race.
Canvas\n\nCanvas is a thick, strong cloth. It feels rough and tough, like the pants called jeans. People use it to make tents that keep you dry when you camp. It is also used for big sails on boats that catch the wind. Artists paint pictures on it with bright colors. You might see it in a backpack or on strong shoes.
Canyon\n\nA canyon is a big, deep crack in the ground. It looks like a long, narrow valley with tall, steep walls on both sides. You can find it in dry, rocky places where a river has cut through the land over a very long time. A river flows at the bottom and slowly wears away the rock. The Grand Canyon is a very big one that many people visit. It has layers of red and brown rock that glow in the sun.
Cap\n\nA cap is a small hat that sits on top of your head. It has a round part that covers your head and a flat piece in front that sticks out. You can find caps in stores that sell clothes. People wear it to keep the sun out of their eyes on bright days. Some caps have a picture or a word on the front. A baseball player wears a cap when he plays a game.
Cape\n\nA cape is a piece of clothing that hangs from the shoulders. It has no sleeves, and it is open in the front. You can find it in stories about kings, queens, and superheroes. People wear it to look fancy or to keep warm. A superhero like Superman wears a red cape that flies behind him when he runs.
Cape of Good Hope\n\nThe Cape of Good Hope is a special point of land at the very bottom of Africa. It is a rocky place where two big seas touch each other. You can find it in the country of South Africa, inside a big park with tall mountains. Long ago, people on boats used it as a sign to know where they were. It is a good spot to watch the water and see birds flying over the waves.
Cape Town\n\nCape Town is a big city in South Africa. It sits by the sea at the bottom of Africa. A very tall, flat mountain called Table Mountain stands right next to it. People in Cape Town work in shops, drive cars, and live in houses like in other cities. Long ago, ships from far away stopped there to get food and water. Today, many people visit to see the mountain and the blue ocean.
Cape Verde\n\nCape Verde is a country made of many small islands. It sits in the big blue ocean near Africa. The islands have dark rocks from old volcanoes. People live on nine of the islands. They grow bananas and catch fish. The sun shines almost every day, and a soft wind blows from the sea.
Capital\n\nA capital is the most important city in a country. It is where the leaders work and make big choices for everyone. You can find it on a map with a special star or a bigger dot. People visit it to see big buildings, flags, and sometimes a parade. For example, Washington, D.C. is the capital of the United States.
Capital (economics)\n\nCapital is the money or things people use to start a business. It can be coins, paper bills, or big tools like a tractor. A baker uses capital to buy flour and an oven. A farmer uses capital to buy seeds and a plow. Without capital, it is hard to make a shop or a farm.
Capital city\n\nA capital city is the main city of a country. It is where the leaders work and make rules. You can find big buildings, flags, and busy streets there. People go to the capital to talk about laws and help run the country. For example, Washington, D.C. is the capital of the United States.
Capitalism\n\nCapitalism is a way people buy and sell things. In this way, a person can own a shop or a farm. It lets people choose what to make and what to buy. If you have a lemonade stand, you are part of capitalism. You decide how much to sell a cup for, and people choose if they want to buy it. Many countries use this way.
Capsicum\n\nA capsicum is a plant that grows a fruit you can eat. It can be green, red, yellow, or orange. You find it in gardens or at the store. People eat it raw in salads or cook it in food. Some kinds taste sweet, and some taste hot and make your mouth feel warm. The sweet kind is called a bell pepper. You might see it on pizza or in a sandwich.
Capuchin monkey\n\nA capuchin monkey is a small, smart animal that lives in trees. It has dark brown or black fur, with a white face, throat, and chest. It lives in warm forests in Central and South America. It uses its long tail to help it climb and balance. It eats fruits, nuts, bugs, and sometimes small eggs. It is very clever and can use stones to crack open hard nuts. Some people even train it to help with simple tasks at home. You might see it in movies or at a zoo.
Capybara\n\nA capybara is a big, furry animal that looks like a giant guinea pig. It has short brown or reddish-brown fur, a round body, and small ears. Its eyes and nose sit high on its head so it can see and breathe while swimming. It lives near rivers and wet, grassy places in South America. It loves water and swims very well because it has a little skin between its toes. It eats grass and plants. It stays in big family groups and makes soft sounds like clicks and whistles to talk to its friends.
Car\n\nA car is a big machine with four wheels that helps people move from place to place. It has doors, windows, and seats inside. You see cars on roads and streets every day. People drive a car to go to school, the store, or to visit friends. It needs gas or a special battery to go. A car can be red, blue, or many other colors.
Carbohydrate\n\nA carbohydrate is a part of food that gives your body energy to run and play. It is made of tiny bits called sugars joined together. You find it in bread, pasta, rice, and potatoes. When you eat these foods, your body turns them into power for your muscles. If you eat more than you need, the extra is saved as fat. Many people get about half of their daily energy from it.
Carbon\n\nCarbon is a special kind of tiny building block. It is in all living things, like people, animals, and plants. You cannot see it because it is too small, but it is everywhere. It can join with other tiny blocks to make many things. For example, the black part inside a pencil has carbon. A shiny diamond is also made of carbon. It helps make the food we eat and the air we breathe out.
Carbon dioxide\n\nCarbon dioxide is a gas that has no color and no smell. It is made of tiny parts that are too small to see. People and animals breathe it out when they let air out of their mouths. Plants take it in from the air to make their own food. This helps plants grow big and strong. You can see it in bubbles in a fizzy drink. It is also in the air all around us, but you cannot see it.
Card\n\nA card is a small, flat piece of thick paper. It often has a picture on the front and words inside. You can find cards in a store or make one at home. People give cards to say happy birthday, thank you, or I love you. You might get a card on your birthday with a cake picture on it.
Card game\n\nA card game is a game you play with a set of cards. It has small paper cards with pictures or numbers on one side. You can play it at a table with friends or family. In many card games, you hold your cards so only you can see them. Some card games are about matching colors or numbers. Go Fish is a card game where you ask a friend for a card to make a pair. Another card game is Solitaire, which you can play all by yourself.
Cardamom\n\nCardamom is a spice that comes from tiny seeds inside a small pod. It has a very strong smell and a warm, sharp taste. The pod is shaped like a little triangle and feels papery on the outside. People use it to add flavor to food and drinks. You might find it in cookies, tea, or rice dishes. It is also used to help with tummy aches. A little bit of it goes a long way because the taste is so strong.
Cardboard\n\nCardboard is a thick, brown paper. It is stiff and hard to bend. You can find it in boxes that hold toys, shoes, or food. People use it to make boxes for moving things from one place to another. A big box that a new toy comes in is made of cardboard.
Cardiff\n\nCardiff is a big city in a country called Wales. It has many houses, shops, and tall buildings. A castle sits in the middle of the city, and three rivers run through it. Many people live there, and they can ride buses or trains to get around. The city has a huge stadium where people play sports and sing songs. It also has a big school with many students.
Cardinal (bird)\n\nA cardinal is a small bird with a bright red body. It has a short orange beak and a pointed crest on top of its head. You can see it in trees and bushes in North America. It sings pretty songs in the morning. The red one is the boy, and the girl is brown with a little red.
Cardinal direction\n\nA cardinal direction is one of the four main ways to go. It is north, east, south, or west. You can see them on a map or a compass. The sun rises in the east every morning. The sun sets in the west every afternoon. A compass needle points north to help you find your way.
Cardiology\n\nCardiology is a kind of doctor work that looks after the heart. It helps people when their heart is sick or not working right. A doctor who does this work is called a cardiologist. They check how the heart beats and make sure blood moves well inside the body. You might see a cardiologist if your heart needs extra care.
Cardiovascular\n\nCardiovascular is a big word for the heart and the tubes that carry blood. The heart is a strong pump inside your chest. It pushes blood through long, bendy tubes called blood vessels. Blood goes all around your body to bring air and food to every part. You can feel your heart beat when you run fast or put your hand on your chest.
Care\n\nCare is a warm feeling you have for someone or something you love. It means you want to keep them safe and happy. When you give a hug to a friend who is sad, that is care. When you water a plant so it can grow, that is care too. You can show care by sharing your toys or helping your mom set the table. It makes people feel good inside.
Career\n\nA career is the kind of work a grown-up does for many years. It is a job they learn about and get better at over time. You can see a career when you visit a fire station, a school, or a store. A firefighter, a teacher, and a shopkeeper each have a career. They help people and earn money to buy food and a home.
Careful\n\nCareful is a way you act when you want to keep things safe. It means you move slowly and look where you are going. When you hold a cup of juice with two hands, you are being careful. It helps you not spill or break things. Being careful also means you think before you do something, like crossing the street. You look both ways to make sure no cars are coming. It keeps you and others from getting hurt.
Carefully\n\nCarefully means doing something with a lot of care. When you do something carefully, you go slow and watch what you are doing. You do not rush or make big, fast moves. For example, when you carry a cup of water, you walk carefully so the water does not spill. When you color a picture, you move the crayon carefully to stay inside the lines. It helps you not break things or get hurt.
Cargo\n\nCargo is things that people move from one place to another. It can be food, toys, boxes, or big machines. You see it on big trucks that drive on the road. It also rides on long trains, big boats, and planes that fly in the sky. People put it in strong metal boxes so it stays safe. A place where it gets on or off a truck or boat is called a cargo stop.
Caribbean\n\nThe Caribbean is a warm, sunny part of the world. It has a big blue sea and many small islands. You can find white sand and clear water there. Many people visit to swim and play on the beach. Some islands have tall green hills and colorful birds. The weather is hot most of the year. People there grow sweet fruits like bananas and mangoes.
Caribbean Sea\n\nThe Caribbean Sea is a big, warm body of water. It is part of the bigger Atlantic Ocean. It sits below the Gulf of Mexico. Many small islands are inside it. The water is very deep in some spots. People from far away visit the islands to swim and play in the sun. Long ago, a man named Columbus sailed there and found the islands.
Carl Friedrich Gauss\n\nCarl Friedrich Gauss was a very smart man who loved numbers. He lived a long time ago and thought about math in new ways. He found a quick trick to add up all the numbers from 1 to 100 when he was just a boy. He also helped make maps and studied stars in the sky. Many math ideas we use today come from his work.
Carnival\n\nA carnival is a big, happy party that happens outside in a town. It has bright colors, loud music, and many people walking and dancing in the street. You can see people wearing funny clothes and masks. Some ride on big, pretty cars called floats. It often happens before a quiet time called Lent, when some people give up treats. In some places, it lasts for many days, and everyone comes out to play and watch.
Carnivore\n\nA carnivore is an animal that eats only meat. It has sharp teeth to bite and tear food. You can find it in forests, jungles, or even your own backyard. It hunts other animals to eat, or sometimes it finds animals that are already dead. A lion is a big carnivore that lives in the wild.
Carnivorous plant\n\nA carnivorous plant is a plant that eats bugs. It has special leaves that catch small animals like flies and ants. You can find it in wet, muddy places where the dirt is not very good for plants. It uses the bugs as food to help it grow strong. One kind you might see is the Venus flytrap. It has leaves that snap shut fast when a bug touches tiny hairs inside.
Carp\n\nA carp is a fish that lives in rivers and lakes. It has shiny scales and a big mouth. People in some places like to catch it and eat it. In other places, it stirs up mud and makes the water dirty. Some pretty fish in ponds, like goldfish, are its cousins.
Carpathian Mountains\n\nThe Carpathian Mountains are a long, curvy line of tall hills in the middle of Europe. They stretch like a big smile across many countries. You can find them in places like Romania, Poland, and Ukraine. The mountains are covered with green trees and are home to bears, wolves, and birds. Some parts are very high and have snow on top even in summer. People like to walk on the mountain paths and look at the pretty views.
Carpenter\n\nA carpenter is a person who builds and fixes things with wood. He uses tools like a hammer, a saw, and a ruler. You can find him making tables, chairs, and houses. Some carpenters build big strong parts of a house, like the walls. Others make pretty things like toy boxes or wooden animals. A carpenter works very carefully so everything fits together just right.
Carpet\n\nA carpet is a big, soft piece of cloth that covers the floor. It can be many colors and sizes. Some carpets go from one wall to the other wall in a room. It makes the floor warm and soft to walk on. You can sit or play on it. Some carpets have pretty pictures or shapes on them. A smaller one is called a rug. You might see a rug next to your bed or in the living room.
Carriage\n\nA carriage is a fancy cart that people ride in. It has four big wheels and a soft seat inside. Long ago, a horse pulled it on the road before cars were made. Today, you can see it at a wedding when a bride and groom ride together. It looks pretty with shiny paint and sometimes flowers on the door.
Carrot\n\nA carrot is a long, orange vegetable that grows under the ground. It has a green leafy top that sticks out of the dirt. You can find it in a garden or at the grocery store. People eat it raw as a crunchy snack or cook it in soups and meals. It tastes a little sweet. Rabbits love to munch on it too.
Carry\n\nCarry means to hold something and move it from one place to another. You can carry a toy in your hands, a bag on your back, or a baby in your arms. It helps you bring things with you when you walk. When you help Mom bring in the food from the car, you carry the bags.
Cart\n\nA cart is a small wagon with wheels. It has a flat part to carry things and a handle to pull or push. Long ago, people used a horse or a donkey to pull a big cart on the road. Today, you see a small cart at the grocery store. You push it down the aisles and put food inside. It helps you carry many things at once without holding them in your arms.
Cartography\n\nCartography is the way people make maps. A map is a picture that shows where places are. It can show roads, rivers, mountains, and houses. You can find a map in a book, on a phone, or on a big sign at the park. People use maps to find the way to a new place or to see how far away something is. A long time ago, people drew maps with a pen on paper. Today, many maps are made on a computer. A person who makes maps is called a cartographer.
Cartoon\n\nA cartoon is a funny drawing or a moving picture. It can be a single picture that makes you laugh, or many pictures that tell a story. You see cartoons in books, newspapers, and on TV. Some cartoons are about animals that talk and wear clothes, like a mouse or a duck. A person who draws cartoons is called a cartoonist. When the pictures move on a screen, it is also called a cartoon. Many kids watch cartoons on Saturday mornings.
Carve\n\nCarve means to cut a shape into something hard. It is done with a sharp tool like a knife. You can carve wood to make a toy or a statue. Some people carve a pumpkin to make a funny face for Halloween. You might see a carved stone with letters on it in a park.
Case\n\nA case is a box that keeps things safe. It can be hard or soft, and it often has a lid or a zipper. You might see a case for glasses, a pencil case at school, or a phone case on a phone. It holds something inside so it does not get broken or lost. A lunch box is a kind of case that holds your food.
Cashew\n\nA cashew is a small nut that grows on a tree. It has a curved shape and a light brown color. The tree grows in warm places far away, like Brazil and parts of Asia. People take off the hard shell before they sell it, because the shell can hurt your skin. You can eat it as a snack, or use it to make creamy butter. Some cooks put it in soups and stews to make them thick and yummy.
Caspian Sea\n\nThe Caspian Sea is a very big pool of water. It is so big that people call it a sea. It has salty water, but not as salty as the big ocean. Five countries touch its edges: Russia, Iran, and three others. Many fish live in it, and big boats carry things across it. Long ago, people from Rome came and tasted the water. They said it was salty, so they named it a sea.
Cassiopeia (constellation)\n\nCassiopeia is a group of stars in the night sky. It looks like a big letter W or M made of five bright stars. You can see it high up when you look north on a clear night. Long ago, people named it after a queen from a story. In fall, it is easy to find because the stars shine bright. Sometimes a new star appears there for a little while and then goes away.
Cassowary\n\nA cassowary is a big bird that cannot fly. It has a tall, hard bump on its head, like a helmet. Its neck is bare and has bright colors like red, blue, and yellow. It lives deep in warm, wet forests in places like Australia and New Guinea. It eats fruit and helps spread seeds so new trees can grow. It has strong legs with sharp claws on its toes. It can run fast and kick very hard. People do not see it often because it hides in the forest.
Cast\n\nA cast is a hard cover that a doctor puts on a broken arm or leg. It looks like a thick, white tube around the hurt part. You see it at the doctor's office or on a friend who fell down. It keeps the bone still so it can heal and get strong again. Sometimes friends write their names or draw pictures on it with markers.
Castle\n\nA castle is a big, strong house from long ago. It has tall walls, towers, and sometimes a deep water ring called a moat. You can find old castles in many places like England, France, and Japan. Long ago, a king or a lord lived in it with his family and helpers. It kept them safe from people who wanted to fight them. Today, many castles are old and broken, but people visit them to look and learn. Some castles are still homes, and some are museums.
Cat\n\nA cat is a small animal with soft fur. It has four legs, a long tail, two pointy ears, and small sharp claws. People keep cats at home as pets. It sleeps for many hours every day and plays at night. A cat can be black, white, gray, orange, or many other colors. It makes a soft humming sound called a purr when it is happy. It can also meow when it wants food. A baby cat is called a kitten. Many children love to pet a cat because the fur feels warm and soft.
Catalog\n\nA catalog is a book or a paper that shows many things you can buy. It has pictures and words to tell you about each thing. You can find it at a store or it may come in the mail. People look at it to pick what they want, like toys or clothes. A toy catalog shows many fun things to play with.
Catalonia\n\nCatalonia is a big piece of land in Spain. It sits near tall mountains and touches the country of France. It has four smaller parts, and its main city is called Barcelona. Barcelona is right next to a big blue sea. Many people visit it in the summer to play on the sand and swim. The people who live there speak more than one language. They have their own rules and helpers, like police. The land is green and grows lots of food because it gets more rain than other parts of Spain.
Catapult\n\nA catapult is an old machine that throws heavy things far away. It has a long arm and a big bucket at one end. People put a big rock or a burning ball in the bucket. Then they pull the arm back and let it go. The arm swings up fast and throws the thing through the air. Long ago, soldiers used it to break down tall castle walls. They put it on a hill or a tower so it could throw even farther. Today you can see a catapult in a museum or in a book about knights. Some big boats have a new kind of catapult that helps planes fly up into the sky.
Catch\n\nCatch is a game where you throw a ball and someone grabs it with their hands. It needs two or more people to play. You can play it outside in a park or a yard. It helps you run and move your body. A ball for catch can be big and soft or small and bouncy. When you catch the ball, you feel happy and proud.
Caterpillar\n\nA caterpillar is a small, soft bug that crawls on leaves. It has a long body with many tiny legs and can be green, yellow, or striped. You find it on plants in gardens or parks, munching on leaves. It eats and eats to grow big, then it makes a cozy shell around itself. Later, it turns into a butterfly or a moth with pretty wings.
Catfish\n\nA catfish is a fish that lives in water. It has long feelers near its mouth that look like a cat's whiskers. You can find it in rivers, lakes, and ponds. Some people keep small catfish in fish tanks at home. Other people eat catfish for food. It comes in many sizes, from very tiny to as big as a person. Most catfish are safe, but a few kinds can give a small shock like a zap of static electricity.
Catherine The Great\n\nCatherine the Great was a queen who lived a long time ago. She was the leader of a big country called Russia. She wore long, fancy dresses and a shiny crown on her head. She helped build schools and pretty buildings. She liked to read books and write letters. People remember her as a strong and smart queen.
Catholic\n\nCatholic is a big group of people who follow Jesus. They go to a special building called a church to pray and sing. Inside the church, there are colorful windows, candles, and a cross. A leader called a priest talks about being kind and helping others. Many Catholic families go to church on Sunday morning. They also have special days like Christmas and Easter with happy songs and food.
Catholic Church\n\nThe Catholic Church is a big family of people who love Jesus. It has a leader called the Pope, who lives in a tiny country named Vatican City. The Pope wears white clothes and a tall hat. You can see big, pretty buildings called churches where people go to sing, pray, and light candles. Inside, there are often colorful windows and a cross. On Sundays, families go to a special meal called Mass. They eat a small piece of bread that they believe is Jesus. Many children are part of this family and learn to be kind and help others.
Cattle\n\nCattle are big farm animals that eat grass. They have four legs, a long tail, and sometimes horns on their head. You can find them in fields and on farms all over the world. People keep cattle for milk and meat. A baby cattle is called a calf. It drinks milk from its mother. Many children see cattle in books or at a farm.
Cauliflower\n\nCauliflower is a white vegetable that looks like a small tree. It has a round head made of many tiny, tight buds. You can find it in a garden or at the grocery store. People eat it raw, cooked, or in soup. It tastes mild and soft. Some kids dip it in cheese or ranch dressing.
Causality\n\nCausality is the idea that one thing makes another thing happen. It is like a chain: when you push a toy car, it rolls. The push is the cause, and the rolling is the effect. You see causality every day. If you drop a ball, it falls down. If you water a plant, it grows. It helps us understand why things happen.
Cause\n\nA cause is the reason something happens. It is like the first domino that falls and makes the next one fall. When you push a toy car, your push is the cause of the car moving. If you water a plant, the water is the cause of it growing. You can find causes everywhere—like why a puddle dries up or why a bell rings.
Cavalry\n\nCavalry is a group of soldiers who ride into battle. Long ago, they rode on big, strong horses. Today, they ride inside big metal cars called tanks. They move much faster than soldiers who walk on foot. They can carry heavy gear because their ride is strong. You might see them in a parade with shiny helmets and flags.
Cave\n\nA cave is a big, dark hole inside the ground. It has long, thin paths and big open rooms. Water slowly makes the hole over a very long time. Inside, you can see pointy rocks that hang from the top and pointy rocks that stick up from the floor. Many bats sleep in caves during the day. Long ago, people lived in caves and drew pictures on the walls.
Cave painting\n\nA cave painting is a picture on a cave wall. It was made a long, long time ago by people who lived before us. It often shows animals like horses or big bulls. Sometimes it shows a hand shape or people hunting. You can find it deep inside dark caves in places like France and Spain. People used colors from rocks and burned wood to draw it. Today, we look at it to learn about how people lived back then.
Cd\n\nCd is a short way to write the metal cadmium. It is a soft, silver-white metal that feels heavy. You can find it in the ground, inside rocks and soil. People use it to make batteries, like the ones in toys, and to give bright colors to paint. It is not safe to touch or eat, so grown-ups keep it away from children.
Cedar\n\nA cedar is a big tree with a strong, nice smell. It has a thick, rough trunk and wide branches. The leaves are thin and pointy like little green needles. It grows in warm places near the big sea. People use its wood to make boxes and closets because the smell keeps bugs away. You might see a cedar in a park or a big garden.
Ceiling\n\nA ceiling is the top part of a room. It is the flat part you see when you look up. It hides the floor or roof above it. Some ceilings are plain and white. Others have pretty pictures or shiny tiles on them. A very famous ceiling is in a big church. An artist painted it with many colors and people.
Celebrate\n\nTo celebrate is to do something fun because you are happy. It can be a big party with cake and balloons, or a small happy dance at home. People celebrate when something good happens, like a birthday or a holiday. You might clap your hands, sing a song, or give a hug. It is a way to share joy with the people you love.
Celebration\n\nA celebration is a happy time when people come together. It can have bright colors, music, and yummy food. You might see a celebration at a birthday party or a holiday. People laugh, dance, and play games during it. It makes everyone feel joyful and loved.
Celebrity\n\nA celebrity is a person many people know. They are often on TV, in movies, or sing songs. You might see them on a big screen or hear them on the radio. People like to watch what they do and talk about them. Some play sports, like soccer or basketball, and many fans cheer for them. Others are funny and make people laugh. A few are famous just because their family is well-known. Even though they seem special, they are still people who eat, sleep, and have feelings.
Celery\n\nCelery is a long, green vegetable. It has a crunchy stem and small leaves on top. You can find it in the fridge at the grocery store. People eat it raw in salads or with dip. Sometimes they cook it in soup. It tastes fresh and a little bit like water.
Cell\n\nA cell is a tiny building block that makes up all living things. It is so small you cannot see it with just your eyes. Inside it has a soft jelly part and a thin skin around the outside. Some cells have a little ball in the middle that holds the plan for the whole body. You find cells in every part of you—your skin, your hair, your tummy. They work together to help you grow, move, and stay healthy. When you get a cut, new cells come to fix the hurt spot. All plants and animals are made of many, many cells.
Cellar\n\nA cellar is a room under a house. It is dark and cool inside. People use it to keep food like apples and potatoes fresh for a long time. Sometimes they also store old toys or boxes there. You go down some stairs to reach it.
Cello\n\nA cello is a big wooden box that makes music. It has four strings that you pull with a bow or pluck with your fingers. You sit down and hold it between your knees to play. It makes a deep, warm sound, like a big friendly bear singing. You can hear it in an orchestra, where many people play music together. Sometimes a person plays it all alone on a stage.
Celsius\n\nCelsius is a way to tell how hot or cold something is. It uses a special stick called a thermometer. You see it on weather maps and in kitchens. When water gets very cold and turns to ice, it shows 0. When water gets very hot and bubbles, it shows 100. A warm sunny day might be 25.
Cement\n\nCement is a gray powder that turns hard like a rock when you add water. It looks like soft dust before you mix it. People find it in big bags at building stores. Workers use it to make strong floors, walls, and paths. It helps bricks and stones stick together. When it dries, it stays hard for a very long time. You can see it on sidewalks and big buildings.
Cemetery\n\nA cemetery is a quiet place where people are buried after they die. It has many stones that stand up from the ground, each with a name on it. You can find it near a town or a church, often with a fence around it. People go there to remember someone they loved and to put flowers by the stone. Sometimes you see big trees and green grass there, which makes it feel calm.
Census\n\nA census is a big count of all the people in a place. It asks questions about who lives in each house. The government does a census to learn how many people there are and what they need. It happens every few years, like every five or ten years. The answers help build new schools, parks, and roads. A census is like a giant head count for a whole country.
Centaur\n\nA centaur is a made-up creature from old stories. It has the top part of a person and the bottom part of a horse. You can see it in some books with pictures of old tales. In the stories, it runs very fast and lives in wild places far away. One kind centaur named Chiron helped young heroes learn new things.
Centaurus\n\nCentaurus is a group of stars that makes a picture in the night sky. It looks like a creature that is half person and half horse. You can see it only if you live far down south on Earth, where the sky is very dark. Long ago, people gave names to star pictures like this one. Today, scientists use these star groups to help find their way around the sky.
Center\n\nA center is the middle part of something. It is the spot that is the same distance from all sides. You can find the center of a circle, a room, or a piece of paper. When you fold a paper in half, the line you make goes through the center. In a game, the center is where the action often starts.
Centipede\n\nA centipede is a long, thin bug with many legs. It has a flat body made of many small rings, and each ring has two legs. It lives in dark, wet places like under rocks or in old wood. It comes out at night to hunt small bugs for food. Some kinds can bite, but it mostly just hurts a little. One kind lives in houses and eats flies and roaches, so it helps keep the home clean.
Central\n\nCentral means the middle of something. It is the spot that is the same distance from all sides. You can find the central part of a circle by drawing lines from the edge to the middle. When you play with blocks, the block in the very middle is the central one. A town square is often the central place where people meet.
Central Africa\n\nCentral Africa is a big part of the world. It is made of many countries, like Angola, Cameroon, and Chad. You can find it in the middle of Africa on a map. Many people live there, and they speak different words and eat different foods. It has big rivers, thick green forests, and animals like gorillas and elephants. Some places are hot and wet all year.
Central African Republic\n\nThe Central African Republic is a big piece of land in the middle of Africa. It has no ocean touching it, so it is called landlocked. Much of it is flat with tall grass and some trees. In the south, there are thick, green forests where rare gorillas live. Many people there grow their own food like plants and vegetables. They also dig up shiny stones called diamonds from the ground to sell. The biggest city is Bangui, and that is where the leaders work.
Central America\n\nCentral America is a part of the world. It is a thin strip of land that joins North America and South America. It has seven small countries, like Guatemala, Honduras, and Panama. On one side is the big blue Pacific Ocean, and on the other side is the warm Caribbean Sea. The land has tall mountains, green valleys, and some mountains that can spit fire and smoke. These are called volcanoes. Many people there speak Spanish. They grow coffee and beans in the valleys. The forests are full of bright birds, monkeys, and colorful frogs.
Central Asia\n\nCentral Asia is a big part of Asia. It has many countries like Afghanistan and Kazakhstan. Long ago, people walked on a long road there to trade silk and spices. Today, some places grow soft white cotton, and others dig for oil deep under the ground. The land has tall mountains and wide, flat deserts. Many years ago, big groups of fighters on horses rode across it.
Central heating\n\nCentral heating is a way to keep a whole house warm. It has one big heater, like a furnace or boiler, that makes hot air or hot water. The hot air moves through big pipes called ducts and comes out of small openings in the floor or wall. The hot water goes to metal things called radiators that get warm and heat the room. You can find it in many homes and schools. It helps every room feel cozy, not just one room with a fire. Long ago, people only had a fire in one room, but now central heating lets you play in your bedroom even when it is cold outside.
Central nervous system\n\nThe central nervous system is the boss of your body. It has two big parts: the brain and the spinal cord. The brain sits inside your head, safe under hard bone. The spinal cord is a long bundle that runs down your back. It sends messages from your brain to the rest of your body. When you want to move your hand, your brain tells it to move. When you touch something hot, a message runs up to your brain fast, and you pull your hand away. It helps you think, feel, and move every day.
Central Park\n\nCentral Park is a big green park in New York City. It has many trees, grass, lakes, and paths for walking. People go there to play, run, ride bikes, or have a picnic. It also has a zoo where you can see animals. Many families visit it every day to enjoy the fresh air and sunshine.
Central processing unit\n\nA central processing unit is the brain of a computer. It is a small flat chip inside the computer box. It tells all the other parts what to do. It follows a list of steps called a program. When you click a button or type a letter, it thinks very fast and makes the screen change. It works so fast it can do a billion little jobs in one second.
Ceramic\n\nCeramic is a hard, smooth material made from clay and baked in a very hot oven. It can be shaped into many things like cups, plates, and tiles. You find it in the kitchen, on the floor, or in the bathroom. People use it to hold food, drink, or to make pretty art. A flower pot is a ceramic thing you might see at home.
Cereal\n\nCereal is a food made from grains. It is small and crunchy, and it comes in many shapes like circles, squares, or little balls. You find it in a box at the store or in your kitchen. People eat it for breakfast with cold milk poured on top. Some cereal is plain, but many kinds have a little sugar or fruit to make it sweet. A bowl of cereal is a quick and yummy way to start the day.
Cerebellum\n\nThe cerebellum is a part of the brain. It sits at the back of the head, under the big part of the brain. It helps you keep your balance when you stand, walk, or run. It also helps your hands and feet move together smoothly, like when you catch a ball or ride a bike. If it gets hurt, a person may shake or fall down a lot.
Ceres (dwarf planet)\n\nCeres is a small, round world in space. It is the biggest rock in a big ring of rocks between Mars and Jupiter. It is very far from the sun, so it is cold and dark. You cannot see it with just your eyes because it is too far and not bright. A space robot named Dawn went to look at it and took pictures. It found a big hole with shiny white spots made of salt.
Chad\n\nChad is a big country in the middle of Africa. It has no ocean next to it, so it is called landlocked. The land is mostly dry and sandy, with some grassy places and a big lake called Lake Chad. Many wild animals live there, like elephants, lions, and giraffes. People in Chad speak many languages, but the main ones are Arabic and French. The capital city is N'Djamena. Life can be hard there because there is not always enough food or water.
Chain\n\nA chain is a long row of small rings that are joined together. It looks like a metal rope made of many circles. You can find it on a swing at the park, on a bicycle, or holding a gate closed. People use it to pull heavy things or to lock a door. A chain on a necklace is pretty and holds a little charm.
Chain mail\n\nChain mail is a kind of strong shirt made from many tiny metal rings. It looks like a net of shiny circles all hooked together. Long ago, fighters wore it to keep safe from swords and arrows. Today, some people who cut meat or work with sharks wear it on their hands or body. It is heavy and hard to move in, but it stops sharp things from hurting you.
Chainsaw\n\nA chainsaw is a tool that cuts wood. It has a long metal bar with a sharp chain that spins around it very fast. People use it to cut down big trees or to cut logs into smaller pieces for firewood. Some workers also use it to cut hard things like stone. You might see a chainsaw in a cartoon or at a place where people cut trees.
Chair\n\nA chair is a thing you sit on. It has four legs, a flat seat, and a back to lean on. You can find it in a kitchen, a school, or a living room. People use it to sit at a table to eat, draw, or talk. Some chairs are soft and big, like the one Dad sits in to read.
Chalk\n\nChalk is a soft, white stick. It feels a little dusty on your fingers. You can find it in a classroom near a big green or black board. A teacher uses it to draw letters and shapes so children can see and learn. When you rub it on the board, it leaves a white line. You can also draw with it on the sidewalk outside.
Chamber music\n\nChamber music is music played by a small group of friends with instruments. It is made for a tiny room, not a big hall. Each friend plays a different part, so they all listen closely to each other. There is no leader waving a stick. They play like a team having a happy talk with sounds. You might see a group of four people with string instruments playing together. That is a kind of chamber music.
Chameleon\n\nA chameleon is a kind of lizard. It has a long sticky tongue that shoots out fast to catch bugs. Its eyes can move in different directions at the same time, so it can look all around without turning its head. It lives in warm places like forests and deserts, mostly in Africa. Many chameleons can change the color of their skin to hide or show how they feel. It has a tail that can wrap around branches to help it climb. Some people keep it as a pet at home.
Chance\n\nChance is when something happens that you did not plan. It is like a surprise. You can find a pretty rock on the ground by chance. When you roll a dice, the number you get is chance. Sometimes good things happen by chance, like finding money in your coat pocket.
Change\n\nChange is when something becomes different. It can be a small change, like when you put on a new shirt. It can be a big change, like when a baby grows into a kid. You see change every day. The sky changes from blue to orange at sunset. Leaves change color in the fall. Even you change as you learn new things.
Channel Tunnel\n\nThe Channel Tunnel is a long train road under the sea. It goes between England and France. It is very deep under the water. Trains carry people and cars through it. A fast train called Eurostar uses it to go from London to Paris in about two hours.
Chant\n\nA chant is a group of words that people say or sing over and over. It often has a steady beat, like a drum. You might hear a chant at a game when fans cheer for their team. In some quiet places, people use a chant to feel calm and peaceful. It can be slow and soft or loud and fast. When many voices join together, a chant can sound very big and strong.
Chaplin\n\nChaplin is a name many people know. It belongs to a funny man who made old movies with no talking. He had a small black mustache, a round hat, and big shoes. He walked in a silly way that made everyone laugh. You can see him in black-and-white shows on a screen. He is loved by grown-ups and kids all over the world.
Chapter\n\nA chapter is a part of a book. It is like a small story inside a bigger story. You find chapters in books you read at bedtime or in school. Each chapter has a number or a name to show where it starts. When you finish one chapter, you can stop and start the next one later. It helps you read a long book a little bit at a time.
Character\n\nA character is a person or animal in a story. It can be in a book, a movie, or a show. You might see a character on TV, like a talking dog or a brave girl. It does things in the story, like run, laugh, or help a friend. Some characters are make-believe, like a dragon or a fairy.
Charcoal\n\nCharcoal is a black, dusty thing made from wood. It is made by heating wood in a place with almost no air. The wood does not burn, but it turns into charcoal. People use it to cook food on a grill outside. It gets very hot and makes the food taste smoky. Some people also use it to draw dark, soft lines on paper.
Chard\n\nChard is a green vegetable with big leaves. It has thick stems that can be white, red, or yellow. You find it in gardens or at the store near other leafy greens. People cook it and eat it like spinach. It tastes a little like the ground after rain. Some kids dip the cooked leaves in butter.
Charge\n\nA charge is when something gets power to work. It is like filling up a toy with energy so it can move or light up. You see it when you plug in a phone or tablet to make the battery full again. It can also mean rushing forward fast, like when a dog runs to catch a ball. A charger is the cord that gives the power.
Chariot\n\nA chariot is a small cart with two wheels. It is pulled by horses. Long ago, people used it to move fast. A person who rides in it is called a charioteer. You can see pictures of it in old story books.
Charlemagne\n\nCharlemagne was a king who lived a long, long time ago. He was a big, strong man with a long beard. He lived in a big stone castle with many rooms. He helped make rules for many people in a place called Europe. He liked to learn new things and had teachers come to his castle. He is remembered as a great king.
Charles Darwin\n\nCharles Darwin was a man who lived a long time ago. He looked at animals and plants very carefully. He saw that animals change a little bit over many, many years. He wrote a book about this idea. Many people read his book and learned new things about how animals become different.
Charlie\n\nCharlie is a name for a boy or a girl. He or she can be a friend, a brother, or a sister. You might know a Charlie at school or in your neighborhood. Some people call a pet dog or cat Charlie too. It is a happy name that is easy to say.
Charlie Chaplin\n\nCharlie Chaplin was a funny man who made movies a long time ago. He wore a small black hat, a tight coat, big pants, and big shoes. He had a tiny mustache and walked in a silly way. People watched his movies in big dark rooms with a big screen. He made people laugh without saying any words. You might see a picture of him with a funny walk and a cane.
Chart\n\nA chart is a picture that shows information. It uses lines, bars, or circles to help you see numbers or facts. You can find a chart in a book, on a computer, or on a classroom wall. It helps people understand things quickly, like how many sunny days there were in a month. A teacher might use a chart to show who likes apples or oranges best.
Chase\n\nA chase is when one person or animal runs after another. It happens when someone wants to catch the one in front. You might see a chase in a game of tag at the park. A dog may chase a ball when you throw it. In a cartoon, a cat often chases a mouse. It is fast and full of running.
Chat\n\nA chat is a happy talk between two or more people. It is when you sit with a friend and share words back and forth. You can have a chat at home, at school, or on the playground. People chat to tell stories, ask questions, or just to feel close. When you tell your friend about your favorite toy, that is a chat.
Cheap\n\nCheap means something does not cost a lot of money. It is when you can buy a thing with only a few coins. A cheap toy might be small and simple, but still fun. You can find cheap things at a dollar store or a yard sale. Sometimes cheap things break fast, but not always. A sticker or a bouncy ball is often cheap.
Check\n\nA check is a small piece of paper that tells a bank to give money. It has words and numbers on it, like the amount of money and a person's name. You can find it in a checkbook at home or in an office. People use it to pay for things without using coins or bills. For example, a grown-up might write a check to pay for food at the store.
Checkers\n\nCheckers is a game for two people. It uses a board with dark and light squares. Each player has small round pieces. They move one piece at a time across the dark squares. When a piece jumps over the other player's piece, it takes that piece away. The player who takes all the other pieces wins. You can play it at home with a friend or family.
Cheek\n\nA cheek is the soft, round part of your face. It sits on each side, below your eyes and next to your nose. When you smile, your cheeks puff up and look happy. You use your cheeks to hold food inside your mouth while you chew. Sometimes a cheek can turn pink when you feel warm or shy. A mom or dad might give a soft kiss on a child's cheek.
Cheer\n\nCheer is a happy sound people make with their voice. It is loud and full of joy. You hear it at a game when someone scores a point. People also cheer at a party or a show to say "good job." When you clap your hands and shout "yay," that is a cheer. It makes others feel proud and happy.
Cheese\n\nCheese is a food made from milk. It can be soft or hard, and it comes in many colors like white, yellow, or orange. You can find it in the store, on pizza, or in a sandwich. People eat it as a snack or melt it on top of food. A grilled cheese sandwich is a warm, yummy way to eat it.
Cheetah\n\nA cheetah is a big, fast cat. It has a thin body, long legs, and a long tail with spots. It lives in Africa and a few in Asia, in wide, grassy places. It runs faster than any other animal on land. It hunts small animals like gazelles during the day. It cannot roar like a lion; it makes a chirping sound.
Chef\n\nA chef is a person who cooks food for other people. He wears a tall white hat and a white coat in the kitchen. You can find him in a restaurant, a hotel, or a big kitchen. He uses pots, pans, and a sharp knife to make yummy meals. He mixes things like eggs, flour, and milk to bake a cake. Some chefs make pizza with cheese and red sauce.
Chemical\n\nA chemical is a tiny piece that makes up everything around us. It is so small you cannot see it with your eyes. Chemicals are in water, air, food, and even your own body. When you mix two chemicals together, they can change and make something new, like bubbles or colors. For example, baking soda and vinegar are chemicals that fizz when they meet.
Chemical Bond\n\nA chemical bond is like a tiny, strong glue that holds little pieces together. These little pieces are called atoms, and they are too small to see. When atoms stick together with a chemical bond, they make everything around us—like water, air, and even our bodies. It is what keeps the parts of a toy or a cookie all joined up, but much, much smaller.
Chemical Compound\n\nA chemical compound is a thing made when two or more different things join together. You cannot see it with just your eyes because it is very, very tiny. It is all around you. Water is one example. Water is made when two tiny parts called hydrogen join with one tiny part called oxygen. Another example is the white stuff on your teeth called fluoride. It helps keep your teeth strong.
Chemical element\n\nA chemical element is a tiny building block that makes up everything around us. It is made of even smaller parts called atoms, and all the atoms in one element are the same kind. You can find elements in nature, like the air you breathe or the water you drink. Some elements are shiny metals, some are gases you cannot see, and a few are liquids. For example, the shiny yellow metal called gold is an element, and the air has an element called oxygen that we need to live.
Chemical industry\n\nThe chemical industry is a big group of factories that make many things we use every day. It takes simple stuff from the ground, like oil, air, water, and rocks, and turns them into new things. Some of these new things are plastic toys, soap, and paint. Most of what it makes is not sold in stores, but is used to make other things. Many people work there, wearing special coats and glasses to stay safe. A long time ago, the first big factory of this kind was built to make a strong liquid called acid.
Chemical reaction\n\nA chemical reaction is when one thing changes into a different thing. It can happen fast, like a firework, or slow, like an apple turning brown. You can see it when you bake a cake—the wet mix turns into a fluffy cake in the oven. Some reactions make heat, like a candle burning. Others take in heat, like when you mix baking soda and vinegar and it feels cold.
Chemistry\n\nChemistry is a kind of science that looks at what everything is made of. It studies tiny parts called atoms and how they join or change. You can see chemistry when bread rises in the oven or when soap cleans your hands. It helps make things like medicine, clean water, and new toys. When you mix baking soda and vinegar and see bubbles, that is chemistry at work.
Chengdu\n\nChengdu is a big city in China. It sits on flat land with mountains far away. Many people visit it to see giant pandas at a special panda home. The food there is very spicy, with lots of red peppers. People like to eat hot pot and sit in tea houses. It is one of the biggest cities in the country.
Cheque\n\nA cheque is a special piece of paper that helps people give money to someone else. It is a small rectangle with words and lines on it. You find it in a checkbook at home or in a bank. A person writes a name and an amount on it, then signs it. The person who gets it can take it to a bank and get real money. It is like a promise to pay.
Cherokee\n\nCherokee is a group of Native American people. They lived in houses made of wood, not in tents. Long ago, they lived in the eastern part of the United States. A smart man named Sequoyah made a way to write their words. Today, many Cherokee live in a place called Oklahoma.
Cherry\n\nA cherry is a small, round fruit that grows on a tree. It is red and has a hard seed in the middle. It tastes a little sour and sweet. People eat it fresh or put it in cakes, ice cream, and pies. You can find it at the store in summer.
Chess\n\nChess is a game for two people. It is played on a board with 64 small squares, some light and some dark. Each player starts with 16 pieces, like a king, a queen, and small ones called pawns. They take turns moving one piece at a time. The goal is to trap the other player's king so it cannot move away. When that happens, the game is over and that player wins. You might see people playing it at a park or in a quiet room.
Chest\n\nA chest is the front part of your body between your neck and your tummy. It has strong bones called ribs that make a safe cage for your heart and lungs. When you breathe in, it gets bigger. When you breathe out, it gets smaller. You can feel it move if you put your hand on it. Many people have a chest, and it helps keep important parts safe inside.
Chestnut\n\nA chestnut is a kind of tree that grows a nut. It has big green leaves and a tall brown trunk. You can find it in parks, woods, or on farms. The nut is brown and shiny, and it sits inside a spiky green shell. People roast the nut over a fire and eat it warm. Squirrels like to gather chestnuts and hide them for winter.
Chew\n\nChew means to break food into tiny bits with your teeth. It happens inside your mouth before you swallow. You chew things like bread, apples, and meat. Chewing makes food soft and easy to go down your throat. It also helps your body get the good stuff from the food. When you eat, you should chew slowly and not talk with your mouth full.
Chicago\n\nChicago is a big city in the United States. It sits next to a huge lake called Lake Michigan. In the city, you can see very tall buildings that touch the sky. Many people live there and ride trains or buses to go places. There are fun parks where kids can play, and big museums with old dinosaur bones. Some people eat a special pizza there that is thick and full of cheese. Chicago is also home to many sports teams that play ball games.
Chichen Itza\n\nChichen Itza is a very old city made of stone. It has big buildings with many steps, like a tall cake with stairs on each side. You can find it in a warm place called Mexico. Long ago, people played a ball game there in a huge field. They also had a deep water hole where they gave gifts. Today, many people visit to see the big stone buildings.
Chick\n\nA chick is a baby chicken. It is small and soft, with fluffy yellow feathers. You can find it on a farm, peeping and walking near its mother hen. It grows inside an egg and pecks its way out when it is ready. A chick eats tiny seeds and grains. It cheeps loudly when it is hungry. Many children see a chick in springtime, around Easter.
Chicken\n\nA chicken is a bird that people keep on farms. It has two legs, two wings, and a beak. It is covered with soft feathers. Many chickens live in a small house called a coop. They eat seeds, bugs, and corn. A female chicken is called a hen. She lays eggs that people eat for breakfast. A baby chicken is called a chick. It is small and yellow and says cheep cheep. People also eat chicken meat. It can be cooked in many ways, like fried chicken or chicken soup.
Chicken as food\n\nChicken is a kind of meat that people eat. It comes from a bird with the same name. You can cook it in many ways, like in a pan, in an oven, or on a grill. It is a white or light brown meat that tastes mild. Many kids eat chicken as nuggets, strips, or a drumstick. It is good for your body because it helps you grow strong.
Chickenpox\n\nChickenpox is a sickness that gives you red, itchy spots. It starts with little bumps on the skin that fill with water. These bumps can pop and then dry up. Most kids get it before they are big. It can make you feel hot and tired for a few days. You can catch it from another person who is sick. There is a special shot that helps keep you from getting it. If you do get it, a grown-up can put on a cream to stop the itch.
Chickpea\n\nA chickpea is a small, round bean that is yellow. It grows in a pod on a plant, like peas. You can find it in cans at the grocery store, or dried in bags. People cook it and mash it to make a soft, yummy dip called hummus. It can also be ground into flour to make flat bread. It is full of good stuff that helps your body grow strong.
Chicory\n\nChicory is a plant with bright blue flowers. It has green leaves and a long root under the ground. You can find it growing by the side of a road or in a field. People use its leaves to make salad. They also dry and grind its root to make a warm drink that tastes a little like coffee. Some farmers grow it as food for cows and sheep.
Child\n\nA child is a young person who is not yet grown up. It is smaller than a mom or dad. A child has a lot of energy and loves to play. You can see children at home, at school, or at a park. A child learns new things every day, like how to read, draw, or tie shoes. It uses its imagination to make up games and stories. A child may go to a place called school to learn with other children. Some children live with a mom and dad, and some live with other grown-ups who take care of them. A child needs love, food, and a safe place to sleep.
Child development\n\nChild development is how a baby grows and learns to be a big kid. It starts when a baby is born and goes until the child is a teenager. A baby first learns to smile, sit, and crawl. Then it learns to walk, talk, and play with others. Every child grows at its own speed. Some learn fast, and some take more time. A child needs love, food, and sleep to grow well. Playing and talking with a child helps it learn new things. When a child feels safe and happy, it can learn best.
Childhood\n\nChildhood is the time when you are a kid. It starts when you are born and goes until you grow up. During this time, you learn to walk, talk, and play. You go to school, make friends, and have fun with toys. Childhood is full of new things to see and do every day.
Children's literature\n\nChildren's literature is books made just for kids. It has stories with words and often bright, colorful pictures. You can find these books at home, in a library, or at school. Grown-ups read them out loud to help kids learn new things and have fun. Some books tell about a naughty rabbit, a hungry caterpillar, or a boy who did not want to grow up.
Chile\n\nChile is a long, thin country in South America. It sits next to the ocean and has tall mountains called the Andes. In the north, it has a very dry desert where almost no rain falls. In the south, it is cold and has forests and ice. People in Chile speak Spanish. They like to play soccer and eat foods like meat, fish, and corn. A red bell-shaped flower called the copihue is the special flower of Chile.
Chili pepper\n\nA chili pepper is a small, spicy fruit that people eat. It can be red, green, yellow, or orange. It grows on a plant that first came from Mexico. People use it to make food taste hot and strong. Some chili peppers are long and thin, and some are round and fat. You might see it in salsa or on top of tacos. It can also be dried and turned into powder.
Chimney\n\nA chimney is a tall, hollow tube on top of a house or a big building. It is usually made of bricks or metal. You can see it poking up from the roof. When people make a fire inside, the hot, smoky air goes up through the chimney and out into the sky. This keeps the room fresh and safe. Some chimneys are very tall, like the ones at big factories. A train or a boat can have a chimney too.
Chimpanzee\n\nA chimpanzee is a big, smart animal that looks a little like a person. It has long arms, short legs, and a body covered in dark hair. Its face has no hair and can show many feelings. It lives in the forests of Africa with a big family group. It climbs trees to find fruit, leaves, and nuts to eat. Sometimes it uses sticks to get bugs out of holes. A baby chimpanzee stays close to its mom for many years.
Chin\n\nA chin is the part of your face below your mouth. It is the front part of your lower jaw. You can feel it when you touch the bottom of your face. It helps you move your mouth when you talk or eat. Some people have a small chin, and some have a big chin. When you are sad, your chin might shake a little.
China\n\nChina is a big country in East Asia. It has many people, mountains, rivers, and old stories. You can find it on a map next to the ocean. It has a very long river called the Yangtze. Long ago, people there built great walls and wrote with brushes. Today, many things we use are made there. It is a place with busy cities and quiet farms.
Chinese\n\nChinese is a way of talking and writing used by many people. It sounds different from English, with up-and-down tones like a song. You can see it written in small pictures called characters on signs, books, and menus. Many children learn to speak it at home with their family. If you go to a big city, you might hear someone say 'ni hao,' which means hello.
Chinese architecture\n\nChinese architecture is a way of building houses, walls, and big halls. It often has curved roofs that point up at the corners. You can see it in China and in other places nearby. People use wood, stone, and red paint to make it. The Great Wall is a very long wall built in this style. The Forbidden City is a big home for old kings, with many rooms and a golden roof.
Chinese calendar\n\nA Chinese calendar is a special way to count days and months. It uses both the moon and the sun to tell time. People in China used it long ago for planting food and for big parties. Today, most people use a different calendar for school and work. But they still use the Chinese calendar for fun holidays like Chinese New Year. On that day, families eat together and watch bright red parades.
Chinese characters\n\nChinese characters are special marks used to write words. They look like little drawings made of lines and dots. You can see them in books, signs, and on TV from China and Japan. People use them to tell stories and share ideas. Each mark stands for a word or a part of a word. Some marks look like the thing they mean, like a sun or a tree.
Chinese Folk Religion\n\nChinese folk religion is a set of old beliefs from China. It is not one big book or one big church. People who follow it honor gods, spirits, and family members who have died. They often have a small table or shelf at home with pictures, candles, and food for the spirits. You can see it in many Chinese homes and shops. It is a way to ask for good luck and keep bad things away.
Chinese food\n\nChinese food is the yummy food that people make and eat in China. It uses lots of rice, long noodles, and a brown salty sauce called soy sauce. Many dishes are cooked in a big round pan called a wok. People eat it with two sticks called chopsticks. You might see it in a restaurant near your home, like fried rice or noodle soup. It tastes warm and good, and many kids love the soft noodles.
Chinese language\n\nChinese is a way people talk and write. It is used by many people in China and other places. It looks like small pictures called characters. Each character means a word or part of a word. People write it with a brush or a pen. You might see it on signs in a big city or in a book. Some people speak it at home with their family. It sounds different from English because it uses high and low tones, like singing a little song.
Chinese martial arts\n\nChinese martial arts are ways of moving and fighting that people in China made long ago. It looks like a fast dance with kicks, jumps, and strong arms. You can see it in movies or at a show where people wear soft clothes and move together. It helps the body stay strong and quick. Some moves copy animals like a tiger or a bird. Many kids learn it after school to have fun and get strong.
Chinese mythology\n\nChinese mythology is a big set of old stories from China. It tells about how the world began, about gods, and about magic animals. One story says the world started from a giant egg. Another story says a goddess made people from mud. A dragon is a magic animal in many of these stories. It looks like a long snake with a horse head, and it can fly. People in China told these stories long ago to explain the world around them.
Chinese New Year\n\nChinese New Year is a big holiday for Chinese people. It starts on a new moon, so the day changes every year. It is always in January or February. Families come together and eat a big meal. Children get red envelopes with money inside. People also clean their homes to sweep away bad luck. Each year has an animal name, like Dragon or Rabbit. Many places have parades with loud drums and a long dragon that dances in the street.
Chip\n\nA chip is a thin, flat piece of food. It is often made from potatoes or corn. You can find it in a bag at the store. People eat it as a snack, and it is crunchy and salty. Sometimes it comes in flavors like cheese or barbecue. You might have it at a party or in your lunchbox.
Chirp\n\nA chirp is a short, high sound. It is like a tiny beep or a quick tweet. You can hear it when a small bird sings in the morning. Some bugs, like crickets, also make this sound at night. A toy or a phone can chirp too when it wants to tell you something.
Chisel\n\nA chisel is a tool with a sharp, flat end. It has a long handle that you hold. You hit the handle with a hammer to push the sharp part into wood or stone. It cuts away small bits to make a shape. A person who makes chairs or tables uses it to make the wood smooth and pretty. An artist might use it to make a statue from a big rock.
Chivalry\n\nChivalry is a way of acting kind and fair. It is how a knight long ago was supposed to behave. A knight would help people, keep his promises, and be brave. Today, it means being polite and nice to others. A boy might hold a door open for someone or share his snack. That is a small act of chivalry.
Chocolate\n\nChocolate is a sweet food made from special beans. It can be a hard bar you hold in your hand, or a warm drink in a cup. People use it to make cakes, cookies, and ice cream. It melts in your mouth when you eat it. There are three kinds: dark chocolate tastes a little bitter, milk chocolate is sweet and creamy, and white chocolate is the sweetest. You can find chocolate in stores, at birthday parties, and in your lunch box. But dogs and cats cannot eat it — it makes them sick.
Choice\n\nA choice is when you pick one thing from two or more things. It can be a big thing, like which shoes to wear, or a small thing, like which color cup to use. You make a choice every day. When you pick a toy to play with, that is a choice. Sometimes a choice is easy, and sometimes it is hard. But you always get to pick what feels right to you.
Choir (music)\n\nA choir is a group of people who sing together. They stand close to each other and make music with their voices. You can see a choir at a church, a school, or a big hall. They sing songs with high parts and low parts that sound pretty together. A grown-up called a leader helps them sing at the same time. Sometimes they wear the same color shirt or robe. You might hear a choir on a holiday or at a show.
Chongqing\n\nChongqing is a very big city in the middle of China. It sits where two rivers meet, and it has many tall hills and bridges. It is one of the biggest cities in the world, with many people living there. Long ago, it was a small town, but it grew and grew. Today, people go there to see the lights at night and to eat hot, spicy food. It is also a place where big boats stop on the river.
Choo\n\nA choo is a sound a train makes. It goes "choo-choo" when the train starts to move. You can hear it at a train station or when you play with a toy train. The sound comes from the train's whistle or its big wheels turning. It is a fun sound that makes people think of going on a trip.
Choose\n\nChoose means to pick one thing from a few things. It is like when you have a red crayon, a blue crayon, and a yellow crayon, and you pick the blue one. You can choose what to eat for a snack, like an apple or a banana. You can choose what game to play with a friend. Every day you make many small choices.
Chopsticks\n\nChopsticks are two long, thin sticks used to pick up food. They are often made of wood, bamboo, or plastic. People in many Asian countries like China and Japan use them to eat. You hold both sticks in one hand and pinch the food between the tips. In some places, people also use them to stir food while cooking. You might see chopsticks when your family eats noodles or rice at a restaurant.
Chord\n\nA chord is a group of notes that you play at the same time. It sounds full and pretty, like a little team of sounds. You can make a chord on a piano by pressing two or more keys together. On a guitar, you press strings with one hand and strum with the other to hear a chord. Many songs use chords to make the music feel happy or sad.
Chore\n\nA chore is a small job you do at home. It helps keep your house clean and tidy. You might put your toys away, or help set the table for dinner. Some chores are done every day, like feeding a pet. Other chores happen once a week, like helping to sweep the floor. Doing a chore makes you feel proud because you helped your family.
Choreography\n\nChoreography is the art of making up dances. It tells dancers how to move their bodies to music. A person who makes up dances is called a choreographer. He or she thinks of steps, turns, and jumps, and then shows them to the dancers. You can see choreography in ballet shows, on TV, and in movies. Sometimes it is used for ice skating or even for fight scenes in films.
Christ the Redeemer (statue)\n\nChrist the Redeemer is a very big statue of Jesus. It stands on top of a tall hill in Rio de Janeiro, a city in Brazil. It looks like a person with arms spread wide open. People can see it from far away because it is so high up. Many people visit it to look at the city below. It was built a long time ago to remember a special day for Brazil.
Christianity\n\nChristianity is a big group of people who follow a man named Jesus. They believe Jesus is the Son of God. They read a special book called the Bible. In the Bible, there are stories about Jesus and how he helped people. Many Christians go to a church to sing, pray, and learn about God. They also celebrate a holiday called Christmas to remember when Jesus was born. Another holiday is Easter, when they remember that Jesus came back to life. Christianity is the biggest group of people in the world, with many friends in many countries.
Christmas\n\nChristmas is a happy holiday that comes in winter. It is a day when many people remember the birth of a special baby named Jesus. On this day, families put up a green tree and hang bright lights and shiny balls on it. They also give each other pretty boxes with surprises inside. A big man in a red suit, called Santa, may bring toys for children. Many people sing soft songs and eat a big meal with family. You can see red and green colors everywhere.
Christmas carol\n\nA Christmas carol is a happy song about Christmas. It has words that tell the story of baby Jesus, Santa, snow, or giving gifts. People sing it in December, near Christmas Day. Sometimes a group walks from house to house singing it outside the door. You might hear it at a school show or on the radio in the car. One you may know is "We Wish You a Merry Christmas."
Chronology\n\nChronology is the study of time. It is a way to put things in order from first to last. You can use it to make a timeline, which is a line that shows when things happened. For example, you wake up, then you eat breakfast, then you go to school. That is a timeline of your morning. People use chronology to tell stories and to understand history.
Chrysanthemum\n\nA chrysanthemum is a flower that comes back every year. It has many small petals that grow in a round shape. You can find it in gardens, parks, and flower shops. People like to plant it because it adds bright color in the fall. Some chrysanthemums are yellow, some are white, and some are pink or red.
Church\n\nA church is a special building where people go to pray and sing. It often has a tall pointy top called a steeple, and big windows with colored glass. Inside, there are long wooden seats called pews. On Sunday, many families dress up and go to church together. They listen to stories, sing songs, and sometimes light candles. A church is a quiet, peaceful place.
Church (building)\n\nA church is a building where people go to pray and sing together. It often has a tall pointy top called a steeple and big windows with colored glass. You can find a church in many towns and cities. People sit inside on long wooden seats and listen to stories from a big book. On Sundays, many families dress up and go to a church to be quiet and happy together.
Cicada\n\nA cicada is a small bug that lives in warm places. It has a wide body, two big eyes, and clear wings that fold over its back. You can hear it in the summer when the boy cicada makes a loud buzzing sound to call a girl cicada. It sits high up in trees and is hard to see, but the noise is very easy to hear. Some cicadas are green, and some are black. In some parts of the world, people even eat it as food.
Cichlid\n\nA cichlid is a kind of fish. It comes in many sizes, from as small as your finger to as long as your arm. It lives in lakes and rivers, mostly in warm places like Africa. It takes good care of its babies by keeping the eggs safe in its mouth or watching over them. Many people keep it in fish tanks at home because it has bright colors.
Cider\n\nCider is a drink made from apples. It can be sweet and bubbly or still and clear. In some places, it has a little bit of alcohol, like a grown-up drink. In other places, it is just thick apple juice with no alcohol. People often drink it warm with cinnamon when it is cold outside. You might see it at a fall party or a family dinner.
Cinderella\n\nCinderella is a story about a kind girl. She lives with her mean stepmother and two mean stepsisters. They make her do all the housework. One day, a prince has a big dancing party. A fairy godmother helps Cinderella go to the party in a magic pumpkin coach. She wears a pretty dress and glass slippers. She must come home by midnight. At the party, the prince dances with her. She runs away at midnight and loses one glass slipper. The prince finds the slipper and looks for the girl whose foot fits it. Cinderella tries it on, and it fits. The prince marries her, and they are happy.
Cinema\n\nA cinema is a big room where people go to watch movies. It has many soft chairs all facing a giant white wall called a screen. The room gets very dark, and a bright light from the back shows moving pictures on the screen. People buy a ticket to get in and often eat popcorn while they watch. You might go to a cinema with your family to see a new cartoon or a funny story.
Cinema of India\n\nCinema of India is the making of movies in India. It is a big way people tell stories with moving pictures and sound. You can watch these movies in a dark room with a big screen called a theater. Many people in India and other countries love to see them. The movies often have singing, dancing, and bright colors. Some stories are about families, and some are about brave heroes. A child might see a movie from India on TV at home.
Cinematography\n\nCinematography is the art of making moving pictures. It is like taking many photos very fast, one after another, so they look like they are moving. A special camera is used to catch the light and save the pictures. Later, the pictures are shown on a big screen or a TV. You see cinematography when you watch a cartoon or a movie with your family.
Cinnamon\n\nCinnamon is a brown spice that comes from the inside bark of a tree. It smells sweet and warm. People use it in food to make things taste yummy. You can find it in cookies, cakes, and sometimes in hot drinks like tea. It looks like a rolled-up stick or a soft brown powder. When you smell it, it might remind you of holiday treats.
Circadian rhythm\n\nA circadian rhythm is a clock inside your body. It tells you when to feel sleepy and when to wake up. It works in a circle that takes about one whole day. All animals and plants have this inside clock. It helps flowers open at the right time and helps birds know when to sing. For people, it makes you tired at night and awake in the morning. When you travel far away, your inside clock gets mixed up and you feel tired at the wrong time. That is called jet lag.
Circle\n\nA circle is a round, flat shape. It has no corners. Every part of the edge is the same distance from the middle point. You can see circles in many places, like a clock face, a coin, or a wheel. People use circles to draw and build things. A circle is a simple shape that is fun to trace with your finger.
Circuit\n\nA circuit is a loop that electricity can travel around. It is like a circle path. You find circuits inside toys, lights, and phones. It makes things turn on when the loop is closed. For example, a flashlight has a circuit that lights up the bulb when you push the switch.
Circuit breaker\n\nA circuit breaker is a safety switch for electricity. It lives inside a metal box on the wall, often in a basement or closet. When too many things are plugged in, it feels the extra power and clicks off. This stops wires from getting too hot and keeps the house safe. You can turn it back on by flipping the little switch. It works like a fuse, but you do not need to buy a new one each time.
Circulatory system\n\nThe circulatory system is the body's way of moving blood around. It has a heart and tubes called blood vessels. The heart is a strong pump that pushes blood through the tubes. Blood carries good things like air and food to all parts of the body. It also picks up waste and takes it away. You can feel your heart beat when you put your hand on your chest.
Circus\n\nA circus is a fun show with many acts. It travels from town to town and sets up a big tent. Inside, there is a round stage where people do tricks. You can see acrobats who jump and flip, and clowns who make you laugh. Some shows have jugglers who throw balls in the air. A long time ago, animals like horses and dogs were in the show, but today many circuses only have people. The whole show is led by a person called the ringmaster.
Citizenship\n\nCitizenship is a special tie between a person and a country. It means you belong to that country. Most people get it by being born there. Some people ask to join a new country and become a citizen later. When you are a citizen, the country keeps you safe. You can live there, go to school, and get help when you are sick. Some people have ties to two countries at the same time. That is called having two citizenships.
Citrus\n\nCitrus is a group of plants that give us juicy fruits. It grows as a small tree or a bush with green leaves. You can find it in warm, sunny places like gardens or farms. People pick the fruit to eat or to make juice. An orange is a citrus fruit you may see in your lunchbox.
City\n\nA city is a place where many people live close together. It has lots of buildings, streets, and homes like houses and apartments. You can find shops, parks, and schools in a city. People live in a city because it is easy to find work, food, and fun things to do. A city can be big or small. Some cities have tall buildings that touch the sky. Many people use cars, buses, or trains to move around inside it. A city you might know is New York, where there are many bright lights and busy streets.
City block\n\nA city block is a group of buildings that sit together. It is like a big square or rectangle made of houses and other buildings. Roads, paths, or a river go around the outside of it. Inside, the buildings stand side by side. In a busy city, the buildings touch each other. In a place with more grass and space, they might not touch. You can walk all the way around a city block on the sidewalk.
City-state\n\nA city-state is a city that is also its own country. It has its own rules and leaders, just like a big country. Long ago, there were many city-states in a place called Greece. Today, a city-state is very small and hard to find. One example is a city by the sea where people speak a different language and have their own flag. It makes its own money and takes care of its own people.
Civics\n\nCivics is learning about how people work together to run a town or a country. It teaches you about rules that help everyone get along, like sharing toys or taking turns. You can learn civics in school when you are bigger. It helps you know how to be a good helper in your neighborhood. For example, when you vote for a class pet, that is a little bit like civics.
Civil\n\nCivil means being nice and polite to other people. It is how we act when we share, take turns, and say kind words. You see it at school when friends play together without fighting. Being civil helps everyone feel safe and happy. When someone says "please" and "thank you," that is being civil.
Civil engineering\n\nCivil engineering is a job where people plan and build big things we use every day. It makes bridges, roads, tunnels, and tall buildings. It also brings clean water to our homes and takes dirty water away. You can see its work when you cross a bridge or walk on a sidewalk. People who do this job learn a lot about how to make things strong and safe.
Civil law\n\nCivil law is a set of rules that tell people how to act. It started a long, long time ago in a place called Rome. Today, many countries use it, like France and Germany. In civil law, the rules are written down in big books called codes. Judges read these books to decide what is fair. They do not look at old cases the same way some other judges do. This helps everyone know what the rules are.
Civil rights movements\n\nCivil rights movements are when many people come together to ask for fair rules. They want everyone to be treated the same, no matter what they look like or who they love. These movements happen in towns and cities all over the world. People walk together in big groups, hold signs, and sing songs to show they want change. Sometimes they sit in places where they are not allowed, just to show it is not fair. One famous example is when Rosa Parks kept her seat on a bus. Because of her and many others, buses later let everyone sit anywhere.
Civil union\n\nA civil union is a special promise between two grown-ups. It gives them many of the same rules as a married couple. In some places, it is for two men or two women who love each other. They can share a home and take care of each other, just like a husband and wife. The first country to have this was Denmark a long time ago. Now, in Denmark, two men or two women can get married instead.
Civilisation\n\nCivilisation is a big group of people who live together. It has towns, farms, and rules. People in a civilisation share a way of talking, writing, and making things. They build houses, roads, and big buildings like schools. Long ago, people started the first civilisations near rivers. Today, we all live in a civilisation with many helpers like teachers and doctors.
Civilization\n\nCivilization is a big group of people who live together in cities. It has rules, a way to grow food, and a way to talk to each other. People in a civilization build big houses, roads, and bridges. They write things down so they can remember them. A long time ago, the Romans had a civilization. They spoke Latin and built many stone buildings. Today, we live in a civilization too, with schools, stores, and parks.
Clam\n\nA clam is a small animal that lives in water. It has a soft body inside two hard shells that can open and close. You can find it at the beach buried in sand or mud. People sometimes eat clams, and you might see their empty shells on the shore. The shells are often round and can be white, brown, or gray.
Clamp\n\nA clamp is a tool that holds things very tight. It has two flat parts that push together and a handle you turn to make it squeeze. You can find it in a workshop where people build things from wood. It keeps two pieces of wood from moving while the glue dries. A doctor also uses a special kind of clamp to hold something still during an operation.
Clan\n\nA clan is a big family group. It is made of many people who share the same old family name. Long ago in Scotland, a clan lived together on the same land. They had a special cloth pattern called a tartan that showed which clan they belonged to. Today, some people still feel proud of their clan name.
Clang\n\nClang is a loud, sharp sound. It happens when two hard things hit each other, like metal on metal. You might hear it when a big bell rings or when a hammer hits a nail. It is a sound that makes you turn your head to look.
Clap\n\nA clap is a sound you make with your hands. You hit your two hands together, and it makes a short, loud noise. People clap to show they are happy or to say "good job." You can hear it at a show, a game, or a party. When you clap, your hands feel a little warm and tingly.
Clarinet\n\nA clarinet is a long, thin tube that makes music when you blow into it. It has a small flat piece called a reed on the mouthpiece that shakes to make sound. You hold it with two hands and press round buttons to change the notes. It is often black and shiny, with silver keys. Many kids learn to play it in school bands. You can hear it in songs with an orchestra, where it plays pretty tunes.
Class\n\nA class is a group of children who learn together. It has a teacher who helps them read, write, and count. You find a class in a school, in a room with desks and a big board. Every day, the children sit, listen, and do fun work like drawing or singing. Your own class is the room where you go each morning.
Classical\n\nClassical is a word for things that are very old and still loved today. It can be music with violins and pianos that sounds soft and pretty. It can be stories or books that people have read for a long, long time. You might hear classical music in a movie or at a big hall with many seats. Some people dance to classical music in a show called a ballet.
Classical Mechanics\n\nClassical Mechanics is a way to understand how things move. It tells us why a ball rolls down a hill and why a swing goes back and forth. You can see it when you push a toy car or throw a ball. It helps people build safe bridges and fast cars. Even when you jump, your body follows its rules.
Classical music\n\nClassical music is a kind of music that people have played for a very long time. It is made by people who write down the notes so others can play it. You can hear it played by a big group with violins, flutes, trumpets, and drums. It can sound happy, sad, or exciting. Sometimes it is used in movies or games to show a feeling. It is different from pop songs because it is not made just to be a hit for a short time.
Classmate\n\nA classmate is a friend you see at school. They sit near you in the same room. You learn letters, numbers, and songs together. They may share crayons or play with you at recess. You see them every day when school is open.
Classroom\n\nA classroom is a room inside a school where children learn. It has small desks and chairs, a big board on the wall, and bright lights. You find it in a school building, and you go there every day with your friends. A teacher stands at the front and helps you read, write, and draw. It is a place where you sing songs, listen to stories, and play with blocks.
Clause\n\nA clause is a small group of words inside a sentence. It has a who or what part and a what happens part. Some clauses can stand alone like a full sentence. Other clauses need a friend clause to make sense. When you say "I love you," that is one clause. When you say "I love you and I always will," that is two clauses joined by the word "and."
Claw\n\nA claw is a sharp, curved part at the end of an animal's toe. It is hard and pointy, like a tiny hook. You can find claws on cats, dogs, birds, and many other animals. An animal uses its claws to grab food, climb trees, or dig in the dirt. A cat uses its claws to catch a toy or scratch a post. Some claws can pull back inside, like a cat's, so they stay hidden when not needed.
Clay\n\nClay is a soft, sticky kind of dirt. It feels smooth and squishy when it is wet. You can find it in the ground near rivers or lakes. People use it to make pots, bowls, and bricks. When it is shaped and baked in a very hot oven, it gets hard and strong. You might have played with clay at school or made a little cup with it.
Clean\n\nClean means something is not dirty. It has no spots, no dust, and no sticky stuff on it. You can make things clean by washing them with soap and water. When your hands are clean, they look nice and smell good. A clean room has toys put away and no crumbs on the floor. People feel happy when things are clean.
Clear\n\nClear means you can see through something very well. It is the opposite of cloudy or fuzzy. A window is clear, so you can look outside. Water in a clean glass is clear, and you can see the bottom. When the sky has no clouds, it is clear and bright blue. If a sound is clear, you can hear every word without any noise.
Clearly\n\nClearly means you can see or hear something very well. When the sky is blue and there are no clouds, you can see the sun clearly. When someone talks in a loud, slow voice, you can hear the words clearly. It is the opposite of fuzzy or blurry. If you clean your glasses, you will see everything clearly again.
Cleveland\n\nCleveland is a big city in Ohio, a state in America. It sits next to a very large lake called Lake Erie. Many people live there, and it has tall buildings, parks, and a big theater where shows happen. It is known for a special museum about rock music, shaped like a glass pyramid by the water. People in Cleveland love sports—they have teams for baseball, football, and basketball. A long time ago, it was a busy place for making steel, but now it is famous for a big hospital that helps sick people get better.
Clever\n\nClever means you can think fast and solve hard things. It is like when you find a lost toy by looking under the bed. A clever person can fix a broken toy or build a tall block tower that does not fall. You can be clever when you learn new words or count your snacks. Being clever helps you do well in school and at home.
Click\n\nA click is a short, sharp sound. It is like a tiny snap or a quick tap. You can make it with your tongue or by pressing a button. A computer mouse makes a click when you push it. You might hear a click when you turn on a light or close a lid.
Cliff\n\nA cliff is a tall, steep wall of rock. It goes straight up and down, like a giant stone wall made by nature. You can find cliffs near the ocean, by rivers, or in big hills and mountains. Some cliffs are so tall that they touch the clouds. Water sometimes falls over the top of a cliff and makes a waterfall. Birds like to build nests on the high, safe parts of a cliff. People stand on top of a cliff to see far, far away. It is very strong and does not fall down easily.
Climate\n\nClimate is what the weather is like in a place over many, many years. It tells us if a place is usually hot or cold, wet or dry. Some places have a hot climate all year, like near the big blue sea. Other places have a cold climate with snow in winter. The climate can change if the Earth gets warmer over a long time.
Climate change\n\nClimate change is a big change in the weather over a long time. It means the Earth gets warmer or colder, and rain and wind can change too. Right now, the Earth is getting warmer because of things people do. Cars and factories put tiny bits of gas into the air that trap heat from the Sun. This makes the ice at the North and South Poles melt, and the sea water rises. It can also make storms stronger and hurt the homes of animals. We can help by using the Sun and wind to make power instead of burning black rocks from the ground.
Climatology\n\nClimatology is the study of weather over a long time. It looks at how hot or cold a place usually is, and how much rain or snow it gets. Scientists who do this work watch the sky and the air for many years. They help us know what the weather will be like next week or next month. Long ago, people in Greece started thinking about weather in this way.
Climb\n\nClimb means to go up something using your hands and feet. It can be a tree, a hill, or a ladder. When you climb, you move higher and higher. You might climb at a playground or on a big rock. It is a way to see far away from up high.
Clinic\n\nA clinic is a small place where people go when they feel sick. It has a room with a bed, a sink, and a chair. You can find it on a street near your house. A doctor or a nurse works there and helps you feel better. They might look in your ears, listen to your heart, or give you a bandage. Sometimes you go to a clinic for a quick check-up or a shot.
Clink\n\nClink is a short, light ringing sound. It happens when two hard things tap each other softly. You can hear it when two glasses touch at a party. It is also the sound of a small bell or a key hitting a metal ring. The sound is quick and happy.
Clip\n\nA clip is a small tool that holds things together. It is often made of metal or plastic. You can find clips in a school bag or on a desk. It holds papers so they do not fly away. Some clips look like a little mouth that opens and shuts.
Cloak\n\nA cloak is a big, loose coat without sleeves. It hangs from the neck or the shoulders and covers the body. It can be short or long, down to the feet. Some cloaks have a hood to cover the head. People wear it over other clothes to stay warm or dry when it is cold or rainy outside. In old stories, kings and queens often wear long cloaks.
Clock\n\nA clock is a tool that tells you the time. It has a face with numbers, and little sticks called hands that move around. You can find a clock on a wall at home or at school. It helps you know when to wake up, eat, or go to bed. Some clocks make a loud ring to wake you up in the morning.
Clone\n\nA clone is a living thing that is an exact copy of another living thing. It starts out looking just like the first one. You can find clones in nature, like when a mom has two babies at the same time who look the same. Scientists can also make clones in a lab. A famous example is a sheep named Dolly, who was a copy of another sheep.
Close\n\nClose means something is near or not far away. It can be a door that is shut, so you cannot walk through it. You might sit close to your friend on the rug during story time. When you hug someone, you hold them close. A store can be close to your house, so you can walk there quickly.
Closed\n\nClosed means something is not open. It is the opposite of open. A door that is shut is closed. A box with its lid on is closed. When a store is not open for business, we say it is closed. You might see a sign on the door that says "Closed."
Closely\n\nClosely means doing something with care and paying full attention. When you look closely, you bring your face near and use your eyes to see every little part. When you listen closely, you stay quiet and hear every sound. You can hold something closely by keeping it right next to you. A friend who sits closely shares a seat or a hug.
Closet\n\nA closet is a small room or a box in the wall where you keep clothes. It has a door you can open and close. Inside, there is a long stick to hang shirts and dresses. You can also put shoes and toys on the floor of it. At home, your closet is where you find your coat before you go outside.
Cloth\n\nCloth is a soft, flat thing made from threads. It can be many colors and have patterns like stripes or dots. You find it in your home on your bed, on the table, or on your body as clothes. People use it to make shirts, pants, dresses, and blankets to keep warm. Your favorite t-shirt is made of cloth.
Clothe\n\nA clothe is something you put on your body. It can be a shirt, pants, a dress, or a coat. You find it in a closet or a drawer at home. It keeps you warm when it is cold outside. It also covers your skin so you are not bare. A soft sweater is a clothe you might wear on a chilly day.
Clothes\n\nClothes are things we wear on our body. They can be soft, like a t-shirt, or thick, like a coat. You find them in a closet or a drawer at home. We put on clothes every day to stay warm and to look nice. A shirt, pants, socks, and a dress are all clothes.
Clothes dryer\n\nA clothes dryer is a big box that makes wet clothes dry. It has a round part inside that spins around and around. You find it at home, near the washing machine. After you wash clothes, you put them in the dryer. It blows warm air on the clothes until all the water is gone. Then you can take out the clothes and they feel warm and soft.
Clothing\n\nClothing is what people wear on their bodies. It covers the skin and keeps a person warm when it is cold. It also keeps the sun off when it is hot. A shirt covers the top part of the body, and pants cover the legs. Shoes go on the feet, and a hat goes on the head. People wear clothing every day at home, at school, and outside. It can be many colors and have fun pictures on it. Some clothing is soft like a cozy sweater, and some is light like a summer dress. People pick clothing they like to show who they are.
Cloud\n\nA cloud is a big fluffy thing in the sky. It is made of tiny drops of water or bits of ice. You see it up high above the ground. It can look white, gray, or even pink when the sun goes down. Sometimes it brings rain or snow. On a foggy day, a cloud is right on the ground.
Cloudy\n\nCloudy means the sky is full of clouds. It looks gray or white, and you cannot see the sun. When it is cloudy, the day feels darker and cooler. Sometimes it rains or snows from the clouds. You can see a cloudy sky when you look up outside.
Clove\n\nA clove is a tiny dried flower bud that people use in cooking. It looks like a small brown nail with a round top. It grows on a tall green tree in warm places far away. When you put it in food, it gives a strong, warm smell and taste. You might find it in a ham or in a pumpkin pie. It is a spice, like cinnamon or pepper.
Clown\n\nA clown is a person who makes people laugh. It wears big, funny clothes and shoes that are too large. It paints its face white and puts on a red nose. You can see a clown at a circus or a party. It does silly tricks like juggling balls or falling down in a funny way. Some clowns give out balloons shaped like animals. A clown wants everyone to smile and feel happy.
Club\n\nA club is a group of people who like the same thing. They meet at a special place, like a room or a park. They do fun things together, like reading books, playing games, or making art. You can join a club at school or in your town. It is a nice way to make new friends.
Club (weapon)\n\nA club is a heavy stick used to hit. It is usually made of wood and is short enough to hold in one hand. Some people like police officers carry a club to stay safe. A long time ago, people used clubs to fight or hunt. You might see a club in a cartoon when a cave person holds one.
Cluck\n\nA cluck is a short, soft sound that a chicken makes. It sounds like a quick click with the tongue. You can hear it on a farm or in a yard where chickens live. A mother hen uses it to talk to her baby chicks. Sometimes people make a cluck sound with their mouth to call a chicken.
Clue\n\nA clue is a small hint that helps you find an answer. It can be a word, a picture, or a thing you see. You find clues in games like hide-and-seek or in puzzles. Detectives use clues to solve mysteries. When you see cookie crumbs on the table, that is a clue that someone ate a cookie.
Coach\n\nA coach is a person who helps a team get better at a sport. He or she shows players how to run, throw, or kick. You can find a coach at a field, a gym, or a pool. A coach cheers for the team and teaches them to work together. For example, a soccer coach helps kids learn to kick the ball and score goals.
Coal\n\nCoal is a hard, black rock that comes from deep under the ground. It looks shiny and dark, and it can be broken into smaller pieces. People dig it out of big holes in the earth called mines. It is burned to make heat and power. Long ago, many trains and factories used coal to run. Today, some places still burn it to make lights turn on in houses. But burning coal makes dirty air that can make people sick.
Coast\n\nA coast is the place where the land meets the big, salty sea. It has sand, rocks, or tall cliffs. You can find it at the beach, where you play in the sand and splash in the waves. Many animals live there, like crabs, birds, and fish. Some coasts have soft sand, and some have hard rocks. People like to visit the coast to swim, build sandcastles, and look for shells.
Coat\n\nA coat is a piece of clothing you wear over your shirt. It has long sleeves and opens at the front. You put it on when it is cold or rainy outside. It keeps you warm and dry. Some coats have a hood to cover your head. You might wear a coat to school on a chilly day.
Cockatoo\n\nA cockatoo is a kind of bird with a big curved beak and a fluffy top on its head. It has soft feathers that are mostly white, gray, or black. Some cockatoos have a little pink or yellow on their head or tail. It lives in warm places like Australia and some islands. It uses its strong beak to crack open seeds and nuts to eat. It can also climb trees using its beak and feet. You might see a cockatoo in a zoo or a pet store. Some people keep it as a pet at home.
Cockroach\n\nA cockroach is a small bug with six legs and a flat body. It has two long feelers on its head and a hard, shiny shell. It likes to hide in dark, warm places like under the sink or behind the fridge. It can eat almost anything, like crumbs or old food. It is very fast and hard to catch. Some people see it in the kitchen at night when they turn on the light.
Cocoa\n\nCocoa is a brown powder made from beans that grow on a tree. It tastes a little bitter by itself. People mix it with sugar and milk to make hot chocolate, a warm sweet drink. It is also used to make chocolate bars and chocolate cake. You can find cocoa in the baking part of a grocery store.
Coconut palm\n\nA coconut palm is a tall tree that grows in warm places near the sea. It has a long brown trunk and big green leaves at the top. The tree makes a big round fruit called a coconut. The coconut has a hard brown shell and white soft food inside. People open it to drink the sweet water and eat the white part. They also use the white part to make coconut milk for cooking. The oil from the coconut can go in food, soap, and hair. Sometimes the hard shell is used to make pretty things. The coconut can float on the ocean and travel far to grow on a new island.
Cod\n\nCod is a big fish that lives in the cold ocean. It has a long body, smooth scales, and a little beard under its chin. People catch it with boats and nets far out at sea. It is good to eat because the meat is soft and not too strong. Many people like it fried with chips. A long time ago, people also used part of it to make a special oil. A grown cod can be as long as a grown-up is tall.
Coelacanth\n\nA coelacanth is a very old kind of fish. It has big, thick scales and fins that look a little like legs. It lives deep in the ocean, far down where the water is cold and dark. People thought it was gone forever, but one day a scientist found a live one. It is not good to eat, so fishermen do not try to catch it. It is a rare fish that helps us learn about animals from long ago.
Coffee\n\nCoffee is a dark, warm drink that many grown-ups enjoy. It comes from small beans that grow on a bush. The beans are picked, dried, and cooked until they turn brown. Then they are crushed into tiny bits. Hot water is poured over the bits to make the drink. It has a strong smell and a bitter taste. Some people add milk or sugar to make it sweeter. You might see a cup of coffee in the morning at home or in a café.
Cognition\n\nCognition is how your brain thinks and learns. It helps you remember your friend's name, see colors, and solve puzzles. You use it when you listen to a story or figure out how to stack blocks. It grows as you get older and learn new things every day.
Coil\n\nA coil is a long, thin thing that is wound around and around. It looks like a spring or a curly line. You can find a coil inside a toy that bounces, or in a pen that clicks. It can stretch and then go back to its shape. A coil is also used in a stove to make heat for cooking.
Coin\n\nA coin is a small, flat, round piece of metal used as money. It is hard and shiny, and it often has a picture of a person or a building on it. You can find coins in a piggy bank, in a pocket, or on a store counter. People use coins to buy small things like candy or a toy. When you flip a coin in the air, it can land on one side or the other. Some people save old coins because they are special and fun to look at.
Coke\n\nCoke is a dark, bubbly drink that many people like. It comes in a red can or a glass bottle. You can find it in stores, at parties, or with a meal. It tastes sweet and makes a fizzy sound when you open it. Some people drink it with ice on a hot day.
Cold\n\nCold is a feeling when something is not warm. It can be the air outside on a winter day. When you touch ice or snow, your fingers feel cold. You might see your breath when the air is cold. People wear a coat, hat, and gloves to stay warm. Cold can also be a sickness that makes you cough and sneeze.
Cold War\n\nThe Cold War was a long time when two big countries did not get along. It was not a war with guns and bombs. The two countries were the United States and the Soviet Union. They did not trust each other and tried to be stronger. It lasted for many years after the big world war. People were scared because both sides had very big bombs. It ended when the Soviet Union broke apart.
Collage\n\nA collage is a kind of picture made by sticking things together. It uses bits of paper, cloth, or other flat things. You can make it on a big piece of paper or a board. People cut and glue shapes to make a new picture. You might see a collage at school or in an art book. Some artists use old photos or shiny wrappers in their collage.
Collect\n\nCollect means to pick up things and keep them together. It is something you do when you find things you like. You might collect shiny rocks, colorful leaves, or toy cars. You can put them in a box or a jar so they stay safe. Some people collect stamps or stickers. When you collect, you have many of the same kind of thing, and it is fun to look at them all.
Collection\n\nA collection is a group of things that someone keeps together. It can be toys, rocks, stickers, or anything you like. You might keep it in a box, on a shelf, or in a special book. People make collections because they enjoy finding new things to add. For example, you might have a collection of colorful marbles or pretty seashells from the beach.
College\n\nA college is a big school for grown-ups. It has many buildings with classrooms, a library, and a place to eat. You go there after you finish high school. At college, people learn about one special thing they like, such as numbers, stories, or how to help sick people. They read books, write on paper, and listen to a teacher. When they finish all their work, they get a paper that says they did a good job. Some people live together in a big house at college. You can see a college in a town or a city, with a sign and a big gate.
Cologne\n\nCologne is a big city in Germany. It sits next to a wide river called the Rhine. Many people live there, and it has a very tall, old church with two pointy tops. You can see the church from far away. People visit the church to look at a shiny gold box inside. The city also has a big school where grown-ups go to learn. A long time ago, people made a sweet-smelling water there that people still use today.
Colombia\n\nColombia is a warm country in South America. It has tall mountains, big rivers, and a long coast next to the sea. Many people live in cities like Bogotá, the biggest city. It grows lots of fruits and has many colorful birds. People there speak Spanish. It is named after a man called Columbus.
Colombo\n\nColombo is a big city in a country called Sri Lanka. It sits next to the sea on the west side of the island. Many people live there, and it is a busy place where ships bring things from far away. Long ago, people called it a name that meant "harbor with leafy mango trees." Today, you can see tall buildings, busy streets, and a big blue ocean. It is the most important city for buying and selling things in the country.
Colonization\n\nColonization is when people from one country go to a new place and take over. They build houses and make rules for the land. A long time ago, people from Europe sailed across the big ocean and started living in the Americas. They met Native Americans who already lived there. The new people stayed and changed many things. Sometimes, stories about space show people trying to live on other planets. That is also a kind of colonization.
Color\n\nColor is what you see when light bounces off things. It makes a red apple look red and the sky look blue. There are three main colors: red, yellow, and blue. You can mix them to make new colors, like green or orange. Some people cannot see all colors, and that is called color-blind. Food can have color too, like the orange in a carrot. When something has no color at all, you can see right through it, like a clean window.
Color blindness\n\nColor blindness is when a person cannot tell some colors apart. It is a way of seeing that is different from most people. Many people with it mix up red and green. Some mix up blue and yellow. A few see only black, white, and gray. It is not a sickness you can catch. It often runs in families. More boys have it than girls. A special test with colored dots can show if someone has it. People with it can still see shapes and things clearly. They just see colors in their own way.
Colorado River\n\nThe Colorado River is a very long stream of water. It flows through dry lands in the western part of the United States and a little bit of Mexico. It starts high up in big, rocky mountains where snow melts. People built tall walls called dams to hold back the water. They use the water to help plants grow on farms. The river is so used up that it often does not reach the big ocean anymore. It is an important river for many people and animals.
Colorful\n\nColorful means something has many bright colors. It looks like a rainbow with red, blue, yellow, and green all together. You can find colorful things in a box of crayons or in a garden full of flowers. A colorful picture makes people feel happy when they look at it. A clown's outfit is often colorful with lots of different patches.
Colosseum\n\nThe Colosseum is a very big, round stone building in Rome, Italy. It has tall walls with many arches and rows of seats inside. Long ago, people went there to watch fights and shows. It is now old and broken in some parts, but many people visit it to see how big and old it is.
Colour\n\nColour is what you see when light bounces off things. It can be red, blue, yellow, green, and many more. You find colour everywhere — on your toys, in your clothes, and in the sky. It makes the world look bright and pretty. When you draw with crayons, you pick a colour for each part of your picture.
Colour theory\n\nColour theory is a set of ideas about how colours mix and look together. It uses a colour wheel, which is a circle that shows colours in a special order. You can find colour theory in art class when you paint or draw. It helps you know which colours look nice next to each other. For example, red and yellow make orange when you mix them. Blue and yellow make green. People use colour theory to pick colours for clothes, toys, and pictures.
Colour vision\n\nColour vision is how your eyes and brain work together to see colours. It lets you tell the difference between red, blue, yellow, and green. Inside your eye, there are tiny parts called cones that catch light. You have three kinds of cones, and each kind likes a different part of the rainbow. When light bounces off a thing, your cones send a message to your brain, and your brain paints the colour you see. You use it every day to pick a ripe banana, find your red coat, or see a green frog on a leaf.
Column\n\nA column is a tall, strong stick that holds up a building. It stands straight up and down. You can see it in front of big old buildings, like a museum or a church. It carries the heavy roof so the walls do not fall down. Some columns are made of one big stone, and some are made of many stones stacked up. A long time ago, people in Egypt used stone columns to build huge temples.
Comb\n\nA comb is a flat tool with a row of thin teeth. It is used to make hair neat and smooth. You can find it in a bathroom or a bag. People pull it through their hair to take out tangles. Some combs are made of plastic, and some are made of wood.
Combine harvester\n\nA combine harvester is a big farm machine. It cuts down plants like wheat or corn. It also takes the seeds off the plant and cleans them. It does three jobs all at the same time. You can see it in big fields when the plants turn golden. It helps farmers get food ready for us to eat.
Combustion\n\nCombustion is when something burns. It happens when a thing like wood or gas meets the air and gets very hot. You can see it as a bright, hot flame. Cars and rockets use it to move. A car burns gas inside its engine to turn the wheels. A rocket burns special fuel that shoots out the back and pushes it up. When things burn, they make heat and light. They also make smoke and gases. Some gases are not good for the air we breathe. A campfire is one kind of combustion you might have seen.
Come\n\nCome means to move closer to a person or a place. When you say "come here," you ask someone to walk toward you. A dog runs to you when you call its name and say "come." At school, the teacher may say "come sit on the rug" so all the children gather together. It is the opposite of "go," which means to move away.
Comedy\n\nComedy is a kind of show or story that makes people laugh. It can be a play, a movie, or a TV show. In a comedy, people do silly things like trip and fall, or they say funny words. You might see a comedy on a screen at home or in a big dark room with lots of seats. One example is a cartoon where a cat chases a mouse and bumps into a wall. That is comedy because it is funny and not scary.
Comet\n\nA comet is a big ball of ice and dust that flies through space. It looks like a bright star with a long, glowing tail. You can see it in the night sky, far away from Earth. The Sun melts the ice, and that makes the tail shine. Some comets come back again and again, like a friend you see every few years. A long time ago, people were scared of comets, but now we know they are just icy space rocks.
Comfortable\n\nComfortable means something feels nice and easy on your body. A soft pillow or a warm blanket can feel comfortable. When you sit in a cozy chair, you feel relaxed and happy. It is the opposite of something that feels hard, scratchy, or too tight. You might say your bed is comfortable when you are sleepy and ready to rest.
Comic\n\nA comic is a story told with pictures and words. It has many small boxes on a page, and each box shows a part of the story. You can find it in a book or a newspaper. People read it for fun, and it often makes them laugh. Some comics have a hero who helps others, like a dog that saves the day.
Comic book\n\nA comic book is a book that tells a story with lots of pictures. It has small boxes on each page, and inside the boxes are drawings of people and places. The words are in little bubbles above the people’s heads. You can find comic books in a store or a library. Many comic books are about heroes who wear capes and help people. Some heroes can fly, and some are very strong. In Japan, people call these books manga, and they read them from the back to the front. A child might see a comic book about a hero like Spider-Man or a funny animal like a cat.
Comics\n\nComics are stories told with pictures. They use little boxes called panels that you read one after the other. You can find them in newspapers, in thin books called comic books, or in big books called graphic novels. When a person talks, you see their words inside a round bubble. A thinking bubble looks like a cloud. Many comics are funny, but some are serious too. You might see a comic about a superhero or a silly cat in the Sunday paper.
Commerce\n\nCommerce is buying and selling things. It happens when you give money and get a toy, a snack, or a haircut. A store is a place for commerce. A big truck that carries food from one town to another is part of commerce. When you help at a lemonade stand, you are doing a small kind of commerce.
Common\n\nCommon means something you see a lot. It is not rare or hard to find. A red apple is common at the store. A yellow school bus is common on the street. Rain is common in spring. Many things around you are common, like pencils and shoes.
Common cold\n\nThe common cold is a sickness that makes your nose and throat feel bad. It is caused by tiny germs called viruses. You might get a runny nose, a cough, or a sore throat. Sometimes you feel hot and tired. It spreads when you touch things with germs on them or when someone sneezes near you. Washing your hands with soap and water helps keep it away. There is no medicine to make it go away fast, but resting and drinking warm drinks can help you feel better. Most people get it a few times every year.
Common sense\n\nCommon sense is knowing what to do without being told. It is the little voice in your head that says, "Don't touch the hot stove." You use it when you look both ways before crossing the street. It helps you stay safe and make good choices. Everyone has it, but sometimes people forget to use it.
Common wheat\n\nCommon wheat is a plant that gives us flour for bread. It grows in big fields with long green stems and a top full of small grains. Farmers plant it in many places around the world where the weather is not too hot and not too cold. People pick the grains and grind them into soft white powder. That powder is used to make bread, cakes, and cookies. You have probably eaten bread made from it at breakfast or lunch.
Communication\n\nCommunication is how we share thoughts and feelings with others. It can be words we say out loud, like "hello" or "I am happy." It can also be a smile, a wave, or a hug. People use it every day at home, at school, and on the playground. Animals talk to each other too, like a dog wagging its tail or a bird singing. When you tell a friend about your favorite toy, that is communication.
Communications satellite\n\nA communications satellite is a machine that flies high above the Earth in space. It has big flat panels that catch sunlight for power and round dishes that send and receive signals. It stays far up in the sky so it can talk to many places at once. It helps send TV shows, phone calls, and internet to homes, cars, and even boats on the ocean. When you watch a cartoon on TV or a video on a tablet, a satellite might be helping the pictures and sounds travel to you.
Communism\n\nCommunism is a big idea about how people can share things. It says that everyone should work together and own things as a group, not just one person. In this idea, there are no very rich people and no very poor people. Everyone gets what they need, like food and a place to live. Some countries have tried to use this idea, but it is very hard to do. Many people talk about it in books and in school.
Community\n\nA community is a group of living things that share the same home. It can be people, animals, or plants that live close together. In a human community, people often like the same things and help each other. They may have the same rules and ways of talking. Each person in it is still special in their own way. A community can be a small town, a school, or even a group of friends who play together.
Commutative property\n\nThe commutative property is a math rule about adding and multiplying. It says you can swap the numbers and still get the same answer. For adding, 2 plus 3 is the same as 3 plus 2. For multiplying, 4 times 5 is the same as 5 times 4. It does not work for taking away or sharing. You can see it when you count toys or snacks.
Comoros\n\nComoros is a small country made of islands. It sits in the big, warm Indian Ocean near Africa. The islands have tall hills and a big mountain that can sometimes let out hot, red rock. Many people there grow sweet-smelling flowers and vanilla plants. They also fish in the blue sea. The weather is hot and wet for part of the year, then cool and dry. Most people follow a religion called Islam and speak their own island words.
Company\n\nA company is a group of people who work together. It is like a team that makes or sells things. You can see a company in a store, a bakery, or a toy shop. People in a company help each other to make food, fix cars, or build houses. When you buy a cookie at a shop, that shop is a company.
Compare\n\nCompare means looking at two things to see how they are the same and how they are different. You can compare a big red ball and a small blue ball. The big ball is bigger, and the small ball is smaller. Both are round and can bounce. When you compare, you use your eyes to see colors, shapes, and sizes. You can also compare how things feel, like soft or hard. It helps you learn about the world.
Compass\n\nA compass is a small tool that shows you which way to go. It has a round face and a little arrow that can spin. The arrow always points north, no matter where you stand. People use it when they walk in the woods or sail on a boat so they do not get lost. You might see one in a car or on a phone.
Competition\n\nA competition is a fun event where people try to see who is the best at something. It can be a game, a race, or a show. The people who join are called players. They all try very hard to win. The winner may get a prize, like a shiny cup or a ribbon. You can find a competition at school, like a running race or a drawing contest. Sometimes a grown-up watches to make sure everyone plays fair.
Competition (economics)\n\nCompetition is when two or more people or groups try to get the same thing. It happens in stores when different sellers try to sell you the same kind of toy or snack. Each seller wants you to pick their thing, so they try to make it better or cheaper. This can make things nicer for everyone. Sometimes, one big seller is the only one, and then there is no competition.
Complete\n\nComplete means something is all done. When you finish a puzzle and every piece is in its place, the puzzle is complete. It can also mean you have all the parts of a set, like a full box of crayons with no colors missing. When you clean your room and put every toy away, your room is complete.
Complex\n\nComplex is a big word that means something has many parts. It is not simple, like a plain circle. A puzzle with many pieces is complex. A toy with many buttons and lights is complex. When you build a tall tower with blocks, it can be complex. It takes time to understand or finish.
Complex Number\n\nA complex number is a special kind of number. It has two parts: a real part and an imaginary part. You can think of it like a pair of numbers that work together. People use it in math to solve hard problems. It helps with things like building bridges and making computers work.
Composer\n\nA composer is a person who makes music. He writes down the notes so other people can play the music. You can find his music in songs, movies, and shows. He uses his mind to think of new tunes that sound pretty or fun. When you hear a happy song on the radio, a composer made it.
Compound\n\nA compound is when two or more things join together to make one new thing. It can be a word made from two smaller words, like "cupcake" from "cup" and "cake." In science, it is a new stuff made when different tiny parts stick together, like water from two kinds of air. You see compounds every day, like salt on your food or the sugar in your juice.
Computer\n\nA computer is a smart machine that helps people with many things. It has a screen that shows pictures and words. It also has a keyboard with buttons you can press. You can find computers at home, at school, and in stores. People use it to play games, watch videos, and learn new things. A tablet and a laptop are small computers you can carry around.
Computer data storage\n\nComputer data storage is a place inside a computer where it keeps things. It is like a big box that holds words, pictures, and games. You cannot see it from the outside, but it is inside the computer. When you save a drawing or a game, it puts it in that box. Later, you can open the drawing or play the game again because it remembers. Some computers have a small fast box and a big slow box. The small fast box helps the computer work quickly. The big slow box can hold many more things.
Computer file\n\nA computer file is a place on a computer where you keep things. It can hold words, pictures, songs, or games. You can open it with a program to see what is inside. It lives inside the computer, like a box on a shelf. You can give it a name so you can find it again later.
Computer graphics\n\nComputer graphics are pictures made with a computer. They can be flat like a drawing, or they can look round and deep like real life. People use them to make cartoons, movies, and games. You see them on TV, on a tablet, or when you play a game on a phone. Some computer graphics are made of tiny dots called pixels. Others are made of smooth lines and shapes. Artists use special tools on the computer to paint and draw, just like you use crayons on paper.
Computer hardware\n\nComputer hardware is the parts of a computer you can touch. It has a screen that shows pictures and words. It has a keyboard with buttons for typing. You find it on a desk at home or school. People use it to play games, draw, and learn new things. A tablet is one kind of computer hardware.
Computer monitor\n\nA computer monitor is a screen that shows pictures and words from a computer. It looks like a small TV. You put it on a desk so you can see it while you work or play. It shows games, videos, and pages you can read. Some monitors are flat and thin, and some are a little thicker. You can touch some monitors to make things move on the screen.
Computer mouse\n\nA computer mouse is a small tool that helps you use a computer. It has two buttons and a little wheel in the middle. You put it on a flat desk and move it with your hand. When you move it, a tiny arrow on the screen moves the same way. You press a button to pick things on the screen. The wheel helps you move pages up and down. Some mice have no wire and talk to the computer through the air.
Computer network\n\nA computer network is a group of computers that are tied together. It lets the computers talk to each other and share things like pictures or games. You can find it at home, at school, or at a store. It helps people send messages, print pages, or look at fun web pages. The biggest one is the Internet, which you use to watch videos or play online games.
Computer program\n\nA computer program is a set of steps that tells a computer what to do. It is like a recipe for the computer. You cannot see it or touch it, but it lives inside the computer. When you click a button or tap a screen, it makes the computer follow the steps. For example, a game on a tablet is a computer program. It shows pictures and makes sounds when you play.
Computer programming\n\nComputer programming is telling a computer what to do. It is like giving a list of steps to a friend. You write the steps in a special language the computer can learn. The computer follows the steps one by one. It can do math, show pictures, or play a game. When you tap a button on a tablet, a program makes it light up. Sometimes the steps have a mistake, called a bug. Then you fix the bug so the computer does the right thing.
Computer science\n\nComputer science is the study of how we use computers to solve problems. It is about giving a computer a list of steps to follow, like a recipe. People who do this are called computer scientists. They think of new ways to make computers faster and smarter. You see computer science when you play a game on a tablet or when a phone sorts your photos. It helps us find answers and do things more easily.
Computer security\n\nComputer security is keeping computers safe from people who should not use them. It is like a lock on a door, but for a computer. It stops bad people from looking at your pictures or taking your games. A computer can have a secret word, called a password, that only you and your family know. When you type the password, it lets you in. It also helps keep the computer healthy so it does not get sick from bad programs.
Concept\n\nA concept is an idea in your head. It helps you think about things that are alike. For example, you have a concept of a dog. It is all the things you know about dogs: they have fur, four legs, and a tail. The word "dog" is the name for that idea. Different words can mean the same idea. In another language, people say "perro" for the same furry friend. A concept is like a picture in your mind that helps you understand the world.
Conceptual art\n\nConceptual art is a kind of art where the idea is more important than how it looks. It can be a set of words that tell someone how to make the art. Anyone can follow the words and make it. Sometimes it is just words on a wall. It makes people think about what art really is.
Concert\n\nA concert is a show where people play music for others to listen. It happens on a big, raised floor called a stage. You can find it in a big room, a park, or a field. The people who play music sing songs or use tools like drums and guitars. Sometimes there are bright lights and fun smoke. You might see a concert at a fair or on TV.
Concerto\n\nA concerto is a piece of music for one main player and a big group of players. The big group is called an orchestra. The main player plays an instrument like a piano or a violin. It stands in front of the orchestra and plays the most important part. The orchestra plays along softly so the main player can be heard. You might hear a concerto at a big music hall. The music can be fast and happy or slow and calm. Sometimes the main player plays alone for a little while to show how good they are.
Concrete\n\nConcrete is a hard, strong material used to build things. It looks like gray stone. You can find it in sidewalks, roads, and big buildings. People mix it with water and small rocks, then pour it into a shape. After it dries, it becomes very hard. A sidewalk is a good example of concrete.
Concussion\n\nA concussion is a boo-boo inside your head. It happens when you bump your head very hard, like falling off a bike or hitting your head in a game. It can make you feel dizzy, have a headache, or feel very tired. Sometimes you might see things blurry or feel mixed up. A doctor checks you to make sure you are okay. Rest helps it get better. Wearing a helmet when you ride a bike helps keep your head safe.
Condensation\n\nCondensation is when a gas turns into a liquid. It happens when the gas touches something cold. You can see it on a cold glass of water on a hot day. Tiny water drops form on the outside of the glass. That is condensation. It is part of how water moves around the Earth.
Condiment\n\nA condiment is a food you add to other food to make it taste better. It can be a sauce, like ketchup, or a powder, like salt. You find it on the table at home or in a restaurant. People put it on hot dogs, burgers, or fries. Ketchup is a red sauce made from tomatoes. Mustard is a yellow sauce that tastes a little sharp. Salt is tiny white grains that make food less plain.
Condor\n\nA condor is a very big bird that flies high in the sky. It has wide, dark wings and a bald head. It lives in mountains and open lands. It looks for dead animals to eat, which helps keep the land clean. Some people see it in zoos or in nature shows. It can glide for a long time without flapping its wings.
Cone\n\nA cone is a shape that is round at the bottom and pointy at the top. It looks like a party hat or an ice cream cone. You can find cones in many places, like on the road where orange cones tell cars where to go. An ice cream cone holds a yummy scoop of ice cream. A pine cone falls from a pine tree and has hard, woody parts.
Conformity\n\nConformity is when a person changes what they do to be like the people around them. It happens because a person wants to fit in or be liked by a group. A child might copy what their friends do, even if they do not really want to. Sometimes a person follows others because they think the group knows best. This can happen at school, at home, or when playing with friends. For example, a child might laugh at a joke they do not understand just because everyone else is laughing.
Confucianism\n\nConfucianism is a set of ideas about how to be a good person. It comes from a wise man named Confucius who lived in China a long, long time ago. It teaches people to be kind to their mom and dad, to listen to older people, and to treat others with care. It also says that learning never stops, so you can always learn something new. Many people in China follow these ideas to live together in peace.
Confucius\n\nConfucius was a teacher who lived a long, long time ago. He was a man from a place called China. He thought a lot about how people should be kind to each other. He said that we should treat others the way we want to be treated. He also said that learning is very important. Many people still read his words today.
Congo\n\nCongo is a big country in Africa. It has many tall trees and a wide river. Many animals like elephants and monkeys live there. People in Congo speak French and other local languages. It is very warm there all year.
Congo River\n\nThe Congo River is a very long, wide river in Africa. It is the second longest river in Africa, after the Nile. It flows through a big, hot forest with many trees and animals. People use it to move things like food and goods on boats. Some parts of it have big waterfalls where boats cannot go, so trains carry things around those spots. It also makes power from moving water to light up homes.
Congolian rainforests\n\nCongolian rainforests are big, wet forests in the middle of Africa. They have tall trees that make a green roof high up. A long river called the Congo River runs through them. Many animals live there, like chimpanzees, gorillas, elephants, and hippos. It is the second biggest rainforest in the world. People go there to see the thick trees and the wild animals.
Conifer\n\nA conifer is a kind of plant that stays green all year. It has thin, pointy leaves that look like needles. You can find it in forests and parks, even in cold places. People use its wood to build houses and make paper. A pine tree is a conifer you might see at Christmas time.
Connect\n\nConnect means to join two things together. You can connect dots with a line to make a picture. You can connect train cars to make a long train. When you hold hands with a friend, you connect with them. A plug connects a lamp to the wall so it can light up.
Connector\n\nA connector is a small thing that joins two wires together. It is often made of hard plastic and has metal parts inside. You can find it on the end of a phone charger or a computer cord. It lets power or signals move from one wire to another. When you plug a cord into the wall, you are using a connector.
Conscience\n\nConscience is a quiet voice inside you. It tells you if something is good or bad. When you do something kind, it makes you feel warm and happy. When you do something mean, it makes your heart feel heavy and sad. It helps you know the right thing to do. Everyone has it, even when no one is watching.
Consciousness\n\nConsciousness is being awake and knowing what is happening around you. It is like a light inside your head that turns on when you wake up. When you are asleep, the light is off. It helps you feel happy, sad, or scared. You use it to think about things, like what toy to play with. It is also how you know that you are you.
Conservation of energy\n\nConservation of energy means energy cannot be made from nothing, and it cannot go away into nothing. It can only change from one kind to another. For example, when you rub your hands together fast, the moving energy turns into warm heat energy. The total amount of energy always stays the same. You can see it when a swing goes back and forth: it goes up high, then down fast, then up again. The energy just changes shape, but it never gets lost.
Conservatism\n\nConservatism is a way of thinking about how people should live together. It says old ways and old rules are good and should be kept. People who think this way like things that have been around for a long time, like family, church, and helping each other in small groups. They often want to keep things the same or go back to how things were before. In different places, it can mean different things. For example, in America, many people who think this way want less big government and more freedom for shops and farms.
Consonant\n\nA consonant is a letter that makes a sound when your mouth partly closes. It is not like a vowel, which you can sing out long. You can find consonants in every word you say. They work with vowels to make little parts called syllables. For example, the word "cat" has two consonants, "c" and "t", and one vowel, "a". When you say "b" or "p", your lips come together and then pop open. That is a consonant sound.
Constellation\n\nA constellation is a group of stars that make a picture in the night sky. It looks like a shape, such as an animal or a person. You can see it when the sky is dark and clear, far away from bright city lights. Long ago, people used it to tell stories and find their way at night. One you might know is the Big Dipper, which looks like a big spoon.
Constitution\n\nA constitution is a set of rules for a country. It tells how the leaders are picked and what they can do. It also says what people in the country are allowed to do, like speak freely or vote. Some countries write all the rules in one big book. Other countries have rules spread out in many old papers and court choices. The rules help keep things fair so no one person gets too much power.
Construction\n\nConstruction is the work of building things like houses, schools, and bridges. It uses big tools and strong materials. Workers put together bricks, wood, steel, and glass to make walls and roofs. You can see construction sites in your town where new buildings go up. Big machines like diggers and cranes help lift heavy things. Long ago, people built small huts with their hands. Today, we have tall buildings made of many parts.
Consumer electronics\n\nConsumer electronics are things that use power and help people at home. It can be a phone, a TV, a radio, or a game player. You find it in almost every house. People use it to talk, watch shows, listen to music, or play games. A tablet is one kind of consumer electronics that many kids use.
Container\n\nA container is something that holds other things inside it. It can be big or small, and it has walls and a bottom. You can find containers in the kitchen, like a box for cookies or a jar for jam. People use containers to keep things safe, clean, and easy to carry. A lunchbox is a container that holds your food when you go to school.
Contemporary\n\nContemporary means something that is happening right now or made in our time. It is a word people use to talk about new art, new music, or new ways of doing things. When you see a new toy in a store, that toy is contemporary. A song you hear on the radio today is contemporary music. A house with big windows and simple shapes can be a contemporary house. It is the opposite of old or from long ago.
Contemporary art\n\nContemporary art is art made by artists who are alive today. It can be a painting, a big shape, or something you can walk around. You find it in art museums and sometimes outside in parks. It often uses bright colors, funny shapes, or things from everyday life. For example, a giant balloon dog made of shiny metal is contemporary art.
Contemporary History\n\nContemporary history is the story of things that happened not very long ago. It talks about times that your parents and grandparents remember. You can find it in books, on TV, or in stories that grown-ups tell. It helps us know why the world looks the way it does today. For example, it tells about the first time people used computers at home.
Continent\n\nA continent is a very big piece of land. It is so big that many countries can fit on it. There are seven continents on Earth. You can find them on a map or a globe. People live on all the continents except one. The one with no people is Antarctica, and it is covered in ice. The continent where you live has your house, your school, and your friends.
Continental shelf\n\nA continental shelf is the part of the land that goes under the sea near the shore. It is like a big, flat step under the water. The water there is not very deep, so sunlight can reach the bottom. Many fish, plants, and tiny sea animals live there because it is warm and bright. People can find it next to every big piece of land, like the edge of a swimming pool. It is a very busy place full of life.
Continue\n\nContinue means to keep going and not stop. When you walk and do not sit down, you continue walking. If you are drawing a picture and you add more colors, you continue drawing. It is like when a song plays from start to end without pausing. You can continue a game by taking another turn.
Contract\n\nA contract is a special promise that grown-ups make. It is a promise that the law can help keep. Sometimes it is written on paper and signed with a pen. People use it for big things, like a new job or buying a house. If someone does not keep the promise, a judge can help fix it.
Control\n\nControl means you are the boss of something. It is when you make a thing do what you want. You use your hands to control a toy car with a remote. You use your voice to control a dog when you say "sit." A grown-up uses a wheel to control a car on the road. When you wait your turn in a game, you control your body and feelings.
Control of fire by early humans\n\nControl of fire by early humans is when people long ago learned to make and keep fire. It gave them light in the dark and kept them warm when it was cold. Fire also scared away big animals and bugs that bite. With fire, they could cook food like meat and hard roots, which made the food soft and safe to eat. Cooking helped their bodies get more good stuff from the food. This may have helped their brains grow bigger over time. You can see fire today when you light a candle or watch a campfire.
Convection\n\nConvection is how heat moves through water or air. When a part of water or air gets warm, it becomes lighter and moves up. The cooler part is heavier, so it sinks down. This makes a loop of moving water or air. You can see it when you heat soup in a pot. The hot soup at the bottom rises, and the cooler soup on top sinks. This loop is called a convection current. It helps move heat all around.
Conversation\n\nA conversation is when two or more people talk to each other. It is like a game of catch with words. You say something, and the other person says something back. You can have a conversation at home, at school, or on the playground. It helps you share ideas, tell stories, and learn new things. When you tell your friend about your favorite toy and they tell you about theirs, that is a conversation.
Cook\n\nA cook is a person who makes food. He works in a kitchen at a restaurant, a school, or at home. He uses pots, pans, and a stove to heat food. He mixes things like eggs, flour, and milk to make yummy meals. You might see a cook when you go out to eat with your family.
Cook Islands\n\nThe Cook Islands is a group of small islands in the big blue ocean. It has 15 islands, and the biggest one is called Rarotonga. Many people live there, and they like to welcome visitors who come to see the warm sand and clear water. The people speak their own special language, and they also know English. It is a faraway place where the sun shines a lot, and you can see palm trees and hear the waves.
Cook Strait\n\nCook Strait is a big stretch of water. It sits between the two main parts of New Zealand. On one side is the North Island, and on the other side is the South Island. It joins two bigger seas together. The water in it can move fast and get rough. People cross it on a big boat called a ferry. The ferry carries cars and people from one island to the other.
Cookbook\n\nA cookbook is a book full of recipes. It shows you how to make food. Inside, it has lists of things you need, like flour, eggs, and sugar. It also has steps that tell you what to do, like mix, stir, and bake. You can find it in a kitchen or on a shelf. Mom or Dad might use it to make a cake or cookies. Some cookbooks have big, colorful pictures of the food. It helps people cook yummy meals at home.
Cookie\n\nA cookie is a small, flat, sweet treat. It is round and can be soft or crunchy. You find it in a jar at home or in a bakery. People bake it with flour, sugar, and butter, and eat it as a snack. A chocolate chip cookie has little brown bits that melt in your mouth.
Cooking\n\nCooking is making food ready to eat by using heat. It happens in a kitchen on a stove or in an oven. Sometimes people cook outside over a fire. There are many ways to cook. You can boil food in hot water, fry it in hot oil, or bake it in an oven. Grilling puts food on a metal rack over heat. People cook meat, bread, and many other foods. A person who cooks as a job is called a cook or a chef.
Cooking oil\n\nCooking oil is a liquid fat that comes from plants or animals. It looks smooth and feels slippery. You find it in a bottle in the kitchen. People use it to fry food, like eggs or potatoes, in a pan. It helps food cook without sticking. Some kinds come from olives, sunflowers, or corn.
Cookware and bakeware\n\nCookware and bakeware are tools people use to make food. They are pots, pans, and flat sheets. You find them in the kitchen, on the stove or inside the oven. A frying pan is one kind—it has a long handle and a flat bottom. A big deep pot is for soup or pasta. A flat sheet goes in the oven for cookies. Some are made of shiny silver metal, and some are heavy and black. Mom or Dad uses them to cook dinner or bake a cake.
Cooky\n\nA cooky is a small, flat, sweet treat. It is round and can be brown, yellow, or have little dark chips inside. You find it in a jar at home or at a bakery. People eat it as a snack with milk. It is crunchy or soft when you bite it.
Cool\n\nCool means a little bit cold, but not too cold. It feels nice on a hot day. You can feel it when a soft wind blows on your face. A glass of cold water from the fridge is cool. Some people say "cool" when they like something, like a new toy or a fun game.
Cooling tower\n\nA cooling tower is a big, tall building that helps get rid of extra heat. It looks like a giant upside-down cup, wide at the bottom and narrow in the middle. You can see it at big places that make power, like a power plant. It works by letting warm water meet cool air, which makes some water turn into a white cloud that floats up. That cloud is just clean water, not smoke. The tower helps keep big machines from getting too hot.
Cooperation\n\nCooperation is when people or animals help each other. It means working as a team. You see it when friends build a block tower together. One child holds the blocks, and the other stacks them up. In the ocean, a small orange fish and a soft sea flower help each other. The fish cleans the flower, and the flower gives the fish a safe place to live. Cooperation makes hard things easier and more fun.
Cop\n\nA cop is a person who helps keep people safe. He wears a blue or black uniform and a shiny badge. You can see him in a police car or walking on the street. He stops cars that go too fast and helps when someone is lost. If you need help, you can find a cop and ask.
Copper\n\nCopper is a kind of metal. It is a shiny orange-red color when it is new, but after a while in the air it turns green. You can find it in wires inside your house, because it carries power very well. People also use it to make pipes for water and to make coins. A very big statue called the Statue of Liberty is covered in copper, and that is why it looks green.
Copy\n\nCopy means to make something that looks just like another thing. When you draw a picture and your friend draws the same picture, that is a copy. You can also copy words by writing them again on a new paper. A copy machine at a store can make a copy of a paper very fast. It looks the same, but it is a new piece of paper.
Copyright\n\nCopyright is a rule that says a work belongs to the person who made it. It means you cannot copy a book, a song, a movie, or a picture unless the maker says it is okay. If someone copies without asking, the maker can ask a judge for help. The rule lasts for many years, even after the maker is gone. After that, anyone can use the work for free. There is a small rule called fair use that lets people use a tiny bit of a work for school or news.
Coral\n\nCoral is a hard, rock-like thing made by tiny sea animals. It lives in warm, sunny ocean water. Each tiny animal has a soft body with small arms around its mouth. Many of these animals live together in a big group. When they die, they leave behind a hard shell. Over time, these shells pile up and make big shapes that look like brains, fans, or branches. Fish, crabs, and other sea animals make their homes in coral. Some people wear pretty pieces of coral as jewelry.
Coral reef\n\nA coral reef is a big, colorful home under the sea. It is made of tiny animals called corals that build hard, rocky houses. It lives in warm, sunny ocean water near the land. Many bright fish, turtles, and other sea animals live in it. People like to swim and look at it because it is so pretty. The biggest one is the Great Barrier Reef in Australia.
Coral Sea\n\nThe Coral Sea is a big patch of water near Australia. It is warm and has many islands made of sand and coral. Under the water, there are colorful reefs full of fish, sharks, turtles, and whales. The Great Barrier Reef lives in this sea. Long ago, big boats with planes on them had a fight here to keep Australia safe.
Coral snake\n\nA coral snake is a small, colorful snake. It has bright bands of red, yellow, and black along its body. It lives in warm places like the southern United States. It hides under leaves and rocks. It eats small animals like lizards and frogs. It has a bite that can make you very sick, so you should never touch it.
Cord\n\nA cord is a long, thin, bendy string. It can be made of soft cloth, plastic, or rubber. You see it on things like lamps, phones, and toys. It carries power from the wall to make them work. A cord can also tie things together, like a shoelace.
Core\n\nA core is the very middle part of something. It is the center, like the pit inside a peach or the seed inside an apple. You can find a core in many things. An apple has a core that holds the seeds. The Earth has a hot core deep, deep under the ground. When you eat an apple, you do not eat the core because it is hard. The core is the most inside part.
Cork\n\nCork is a light, soft material that comes from the bark of a special tree. It feels a little squishy and bouncy when you touch it. You can find it in bottle stoppers, on bulletin boards, and sometimes on the floor as tiles. People use it to close bottles so the drink inside stays fresh. You might have seen a cork in a bottle at a party or in a craft box at school.
Cormorant\n\nA cormorant is a big water bird. It has dark feathers, a long thin beak, and feet with skin between the toes. It lives near the sea, lakes, and rivers. It can dive under the water for a long time to catch fish. After it swims, it stands with its wings spread out to dry.
Corn\n\nCorn is a food that grows on a tall green plant. It has a long, round part called an ear, covered with small yellow seeds. You can find it in a garden or on a farm. People cook it and eat it with butter and salt. Sometimes it pops into a fluffy white snack called popcorn.
Corner\n\nA corner is the place where two walls or two lines meet. It makes a pointy edge. You can find it in a room where two walls touch. A corner can be inside, like the spot behind a door, or outside, like the edge of a table. Sometimes people put a chair or a plant in it. When you walk around a building, you turn at its corner.
Coronavirus\n\nA coronavirus is a tiny germ that can make people and animals sick. It is so small you cannot see it with your eyes. Under a big, big looking glass, it looks like a round ball with little bumps all over it, like a crown. It lives in the air and on things we touch. When it gets inside a nose or mouth, it can make a person cough or feel hot. One kind of coronavirus caused a big sickness that spread all over the world. To stay safe, people wash their hands and cover their mouth when they cough.
Corporation\n\nA corporation is a group of people who work together to run a business. It is like a big team that makes or sells things. You can find corporations in many places, like the store where you buy toys or the company that makes your favorite cereal. People who own part of a corporation are called shareholders. They help decide what the business does. A corporation can be very big, with many workers, or small, with just a few people. It is a way for people to share ideas and money to make something useful.
Correct\n\nCorrect means something is right and has no mistakes. When you put a puzzle piece in the right spot, it is correct. A teacher may put a star on your paper when your answer is correct. It is the opposite of wrong.
Corrosion\n\nCorrosion is when a hard thing breaks down over time. It happens when air and water touch the thing and change it. You can see it on old metal that turns red and flaky. That red flaky stuff is called rust. It makes the metal weak and bumpy. People stop corrosion by painting the metal or putting a shiny coat on it. A shiny sink in the kitchen has a coat that keeps it safe.
Cosmetics\n\nCosmetics are things people put on their face or body to change how they look. It can be a stick of color for lips, a soft powder for cheeks, or a shiny cream for eyes. You can find it in a store, in a bathroom, or on a grown-up’s dresser. People use it to add color, cover spots, or look fancy for a party. A clown at the circus wears bright white and red cosmetics to make a funny face.
Cosmology\n\nCosmology is the study of the whole universe. It looks at how the universe began and how it changes over time. Scientists who study cosmology use big telescopes to see faraway stars and galaxies. They ask big questions like: how old is everything, and what is space made of? You can see a little bit of cosmology when you look up at the night sky and see the moon and twinkling stars.
Cost\n\nCost is how much money you need to buy something. It is the number of coins or bills you give to the store. A small toy might cost one coin, and a big toy might cost many coins. When you go to the store with Mom or Dad, they look at the cost before they buy. If you save your coins in a piggy bank, you can use them to pay the cost of a treat.
Costa Rica\n\nCosta Rica is a small country in the middle of the Americas. It has warm weather all year and lots of green trees and bright flowers. You can find it between two big oceans, with sandy beaches on both sides. Many animals live there, like monkeys, colorful birds, and slow sloths. People in Costa Rica speak Spanish and grow yummy fruits like bananas and pineapples. It is a peaceful place with no army, and many families visit to see the pretty nature.
Costume\n\nA costume is a set of clothes you wear to look like someone or something else. It can have bright colors, a hat, a mask, or a long cape. You might see a costume at a party, on a stage, or during a holiday like Halloween. People put on a costume to pretend to be a different person, an animal, or a made-up character. For example, on Halloween, a child might wear a costume to look like a friendly ghost or a superhero.
Cotton\n\nCotton is a soft, fluffy part of a plant. It grows around the seeds inside a little green ball called a boll. When the boll opens, it looks like a small white cloud. People pick it from big fields in warm places. Then they clean it and twist it into long, thin strings called thread. The thread is used to make soft cloth. Many of our T-shirts, socks, and towels are made from it. It feels cool and light, so it is nice to wear on hot days. It can also soak up water very well, which is why bandages are often made from it.
Couch\n\nA couch is a big, soft seat for more than one person. It has a long, comfy place to sit and a place to rest your arm on each side. You find it in the living room, often in front of the TV. People sit on it to watch shows, read books, or take a nap. Sometimes a person who sits on it all day is called a couch potato. A small couch for two people is called a love seat.
Cough\n\nA cough is a quick, loud push of air from your mouth. It happens when something tickles your throat or chest. You might cough when you have a cold or when you swallow water the wrong way. It helps your body push out yucky stuff so you can feel better. Sometimes you cover your mouth with your hand or elbow when you cough.
Could\n\nCould is a word we use to talk about things that might happen or things we are able to do. It is a small helper word that goes before an action word. When you say "I could jump," it means you are able to jump if you want to. It can also mean something might be true, like "That could be a bird." You hear it in stories and when people make a guess.
Count\n\nCount means to say numbers one after another to find out how many things there are. You can count with your fingers, one finger for each number. People count things like toys, apples, or steps when they walk. When you count, you start with one, then two, then three, and keep going. It helps you know if you have enough cookies for everyone.
Counter\n\nA counter is a flat, long table in a kitchen or a store. It has a smooth top and sometimes drawers or shelves under it. You find it in the kitchen where grown-ups make food. In a store, a worker stands behind it to help you pay for things. When you go to a bakery, you see a counter with cookies and bread on top.
Country\n\nA country is a big piece of land with its own people and rules. It has lines on a map that show where it starts and ends. People in a country often speak the same words and sing the same songs. A country has a group of grown-ups who make rules to keep things safe and fair. You can find many countries on a world map or a globe. Some countries are very big, and some are very small. The place where you live is part of a country.
Country music\n\nCountry music is a kind of music that tells stories about life. It often uses guitars, fiddles, and drums. You can hear it on the radio or at a fair. People sing about love, home, and hard work. Some songs are happy, and some are sad. Many people like to dance to it.
Courage\n\nCourage is a strong feeling inside you. It helps you do something even when you are scared. You show it when you try a new thing, like going down a big slide for the first time. It also means standing up for a friend when someone is mean. A firefighter shows it by going into a hot fire to save a person. It is like a light in your heart that says, "You can do it."
Course\n\nA course is a set of lessons about one topic. It can be at a school, a club, or on a computer. You learn new things step by step. For example, a drawing course teaches you how to draw a cat or a tree. Some courses are short, and some take many days.
Court\n\nA court is a place where people go to solve big arguments. It is a room inside a big building. In it, a judge sits at a tall desk and wears a long black robe. People talk about what happened and the judge decides who is right. Sometimes it decides if a person broke a rule. You may see a court on TV when people argue about a toy or a house.
Courtship\n\nCourtship is a special time when two people get to know each other. They spend time together and talk a lot. Sometimes they go for walks or have a meal. Later, they may decide to get married. In some places, families help pick the person. It can be short or long, depending on the couple.
Cousin\n\nA cousin is a child of your aunt or uncle. They are part of your family but not your brother or sister. You might see them at a family party or a holiday dinner. They can be your age, older, or younger. You can play games, share toys, and have fun with them. Some cousins live close by, and some live far away.
Cover\n\nA cover is something that goes on top of another thing. It keeps the thing safe and clean. You can find a cover on a bed, a book, or a pot. When you put a cover on, it hides what is under it. At night, you pull a soft cover over your body to stay warm.
Cow\n\nA cow is a big farm animal. It has four legs, a long tail, and black and white spots. You can find it on a farm in the country. It gives milk that people drink. A baby cow is called a calf.
Cowboy\n\nA cowboy is a person who takes care of cows. He rides a horse and wears a big hat to keep the sun away. You can see him on a farm or in old stories about the Wild West. He uses a rope to catch cows and keeps them safe. Sometimes he sings songs to the cows at night.
Coyote\n\nA coyote is a wild dog that lives in North America. It looks like a small wolf with gray-brown fur, a white belly, and long pointy ears. It can live in many places like forests, mountains, and even cities. It eats small animals, fruits, and sometimes food from trash cans. A coyote digs a home under the ground called a den where it sleeps and has its babies.
Cozy\n\nCozy is a warm, soft, happy feeling. It feels like a big hug from a blanket. You can feel cozy when you sit by a fire on a cold day. It also feels cozy when you wear fuzzy socks and drink warm milk. A soft pillow and a quiet room can make you feel cozy too.
Crab\n\nA crab is a small animal that lives in water or on land. It has a hard shell on its body and eight legs for walking. It also has two big claws that can pinch. You can find it at the beach, in the ocean, or sometimes near rivers. It uses its claws to catch food and to fight. It eats tiny plants and animals it finds on the ground. Some people eat crab meat, and it can be made into yummy dishes like crab cakes.
Crack\n\nA crack is a thin line that opens up on something. It can be on a wall, a sidewalk, or an egg. It happens when something gets hit too hard or gets very old. You might see a crack on a toy that fell down. A crack can make a sound like a snap.
Cracker\n\nA cracker is a thin, flat, crunchy food. It is usually small and square or round. You can find it in a box at the store or in your kitchen. People eat it as a snack, often with cheese or peanut butter on top. It makes a loud crunch sound when you bite it.
Crackle\n\nA crackle is a short, sharp sound. It is like many tiny pops or snaps all at once. You can hear it when you step on dry leaves in the fall. It also happens when a fire burns wood in a fireplace. Some people hear a crackle when they open a bag of chips. It is a fun sound that makes you think of cozy or crunchy things.
Craft\n\nA craft is something you make with your hands. It can be made of paper, glue, clay, or string. You can do a craft at home, at school, or at a party. People make crafts to have fun, to give as a gift, or to put up on the wall. For example, you might cut out a paper heart and color it red. That is a craft.
Cranberry\n\nA cranberry is a small, round fruit that is red and a little sour. It grows on a short, green bush in wet, cool places. People pick it in the fall when it is ripe. Many families eat cranberry sauce or drink cranberry juice at big holiday meals. It can also be made into jam that tastes sweet and tangy.
Crane\n\nA crane is a big, strong machine that lifts heavy things. It has a tall arm and a hook that goes up and down. You can see it at a place where people build tall houses or fix roads. It picks up big blocks, steel, or dirt and moves them to another spot. A worker sits inside and uses levers to make it work. It helps build the tall buildings you see in a city.
Crane (bird)\n\nA crane is a tall bird with long legs and a long neck. It has big wings and a strong, pointed beak. It lives near water, like rivers and wet fields. It walks in shallow water looking for food. It eats plants, small animals, and bugs. Some cranes are white, some are gray, and some are brown. They fly with their neck straight out and their legs trailing behind. They make loud calls that you can hear from far away. When they want a mate, they do a special dance with jumps and bows.
Crane (machine)\n\nA crane is a big, strong machine that lifts heavy things. It has a tall arm, a long rope, and a hook at the end. You can see it at places where people build tall houses or big buildings. It picks up heavy stuff like steel beams and moves them up high. The arm can turn left and right to put things where they need to go. A crane helps workers build things that are too heavy to lift by hand.
Crane fly\n\nA crane fly is a bug with very long, thin legs. It looks like a big mosquito, but it does not bite people. You can see it on walls or near lights at night. It flies slowly and sometimes wobbles in the air. A crane fly does not live very long—only about two weeks. Its babies live in the ground and eat plant roots.
Crash\n\nA crash is when two things hit each other very hard. It makes a big, loud noise like a bang or a boom. You might see a crash when toy cars bump together on the floor. Sometimes a crash can break things into little pieces. After a crash, people check to make sure everyone is okay.
Crawl\n\nCrawl is a way of moving on your hands and knees. It is how babies move before they learn to walk. You can also crawl under a table or through a small space. Some animals, like ants and spiders, crawl on many tiny legs. When you crawl, you stay low to the ground.
Crayfish\n\nA crayfish is a small water animal with a hard shell. It looks like a tiny lobster. It has two big front claws, a long tail, and many small legs. It lives in rivers, ponds, and streams. It hides under rocks during the day and comes out at night to eat. It eats plants, worms, and tiny water bugs. Some people call it a crawfish or a crawdad.
Crayon\n\nA crayon is a stick of colored wax. It is short and round, and it comes in many bright colors like red, blue, and yellow. You can find it in a box with other crayons at home or at school. You use it to draw pictures on paper. When you push it across the page, it leaves a soft, waxy line. A green crayon can make a tree, and a yellow one can make a sun.
Creak\n\nA creak is a long, slow, squeaky sound. It happens when something old or stiff moves a little. You might hear it from a wooden floor when someone walks on it. An old door can make it when it opens or closes. It sounds like a rusty hinge that needs some oil.
Cream\n\nCream is the thick, rich part of milk. It is white or light yellow and feels smooth. You can find it in a carton at the store, near the milk. People pour it into coffee to make the drink taste softer. It is also used to make yummy sauces, like a white sauce for pasta. When you shake cream very hard, it turns into whipped cream, which is fluffy and sweet.
Create\n\nCreate means to make something new. When you draw a picture, you create it. You can also create a song by singing or a story by telling it. People create things every day, like building with blocks or baking cookies. It feels good to create something all by yourself.
Creation\n\nCreation is when something new is made. It can be a drawing, a song, a story, or a building. People use their hands and minds to make things. A child making a sandcastle at the beach is creation. A cook making a new kind of cookie is creation too. It starts as an idea and then becomes real.
Creation myth\n\nA creation myth is a very old story that tells how the world began. It explains where the sky, the land, and people came from. Long ago, people made up these stories to answer big questions. In one story, a little bug named Dayuni'si brought up mud from deep water, and the mud grew and grew until it became the whole earth. In another story, a man called the Creator made a tiny brown ball from sweat, and then the wind and a spider pulled it until it became our big world. Many different people around the world have their own creation myth.
Creativity\n\nCreativity is when you make something new from your own ideas. It is like a little light in your head that helps you think of things nobody else has thought of before. You can find it when you draw a picture, build with blocks, or tell a story. It helps you solve problems in fun ways. For example, if you use a box as a pretend car, that is creativity.
Creature\n\nA creature is any living thing that can move and grow. It can be big like an elephant or tiny like a bug. You can find creatures in the water, on land, or in the air. A creature eats food, breathes air, and has babies. A dog, a bird, and a fish are all creatures.
Credit card\n\nA credit card is a small plastic card that lets you buy things without using paper money. It has a long number on the front and a special chip inside. You can use it at a store or on a computer to pay. When you buy with it, the bank pays the store first, and you pay the bank back later. If you do not pay the bank back on time, you have to give them extra money. Many grown-ups keep one in a wallet or a purse.
Creek\n\nA creek is a small stream of water that moves along the ground. It is not as big as a river, and you can often step across it. You can find a creek in a park, a forest, or near hills. The water in it comes from rain or melting snow. It makes a soft, happy sound as it flows over rocks. Sometimes you can see little fish or frogs living in it. Children like to splash and play in a creek on a warm day.
Crescent\n\nA crescent is a thin, curved shape. It looks like a banana or a smile in the sky. You can see it at night when the moon is not full. Sometimes people use it as a picture on flags or in stories. It is a pretty shape that makes you think of quiet nights.
Crete\n\nCrete is a big island in the sea. It has warm sun, good dirt, and lots of water. Long ago, people there made pretty art and big houses. They picked small purple flowers to make yellow color for clothes and food. They played games and liked music. A famous old house on the island has many twisty halls. People told stories about a monster that was half bull and half man living there.
Crib\n\nA crib is a small bed for a baby. It has tall sides all around so the baby cannot fall out. You find it in a baby's room at home. The baby sleeps and naps in it. Sometimes a crib has soft blankets and a tiny pillow inside. A mobile with toys may hang above it for the baby to look at.
Cricket\n\nCricket is a game played outside on a big grassy field. It uses a bat and a ball. Two teams play, and each team has eleven people. One person throws the ball, and another person hits it with the bat. They run back and forth to score points. People play it in many countries, and lots of people like to watch it.
Cricket (insect)\n\nA cricket is a small bug with a flat body and very long feelers on its head. It looks a little like a grasshopper and has strong back legs for jumping. You can find it in grass, gardens, or under rocks, and it comes out mostly at night. It makes a loud chirping sound by rubbing its wings together. The boy cricket chirps to call a girl cricket or to tell other boys to stay away. You might hear it on a warm summer evening outside your window.
Crime\n\nA crime is when a person does something that the rules of a place say is not okay. It is an act that can hurt another person or take their things. Police officers work to stop crimes and find the people who did them. If a person does a crime, a judge may send them to a special room called a jail. Stealing a toy from a store is one kind of crime. Hitting someone on purpose is another kind.
Criminal law\n\nCriminal law is a set of rules that tell people what they must not do. It says that if someone hurts another person or takes their things, they get in trouble. Police and judges use these rules to keep everyone safe. For example, if a person steals a toy from a store, that breaks a rule. Then a judge may say the person must stay away from the store or pay money. The rules help protect our bodies and our stuff.
Critical thinking\n\nCritical thinking is a careful way of thinking. It means you stop and ask questions before you believe something. You look at the facts and check if they are true. You also think about what might happen next. It helps you make good choices and solve problems. For example, if a friend says a toy is broken, you can look at it yourself to see if it really is. You can ask a grown-up to help you find out more. This way, you do not get tricked by a mistake or a story that is not real.
Croatia\n\nCroatia is a country in Europe. It has a long coast next to a blue sea called the Adriatic Sea. Many people visit it to swim and see old stone towns. Its flag has red, white, and blue stripes with a shield in the middle. The biggest city is Zagreb, where many people live and work.
Crochet\n\nCrochet is a way to make soft things from long, thin string called yarn. It uses a small stick with a hook at one end. You pull loops of yarn through other loops with the hook. It is like drawing with string. People use it to make warm blankets, hats, scarves, and little toy animals. You can find crochet things at home, like a cozy blanket on the couch. It is easy for kids to learn because the hook fits in small hands. You can stop and start again any time.
Crocodile\n\nA crocodile is a big animal that lives in water and on land. It has a long body, a long tail, and a big mouth with many sharp teeth. Its skin is hard and bumpy, and it can be brown, gray, or green. It lives in warm rivers and lakes in places like Africa, Asia, and America. It hides in the water like a log and waits for animals to come close. Then it jumps out and grabs them with its strong mouth. A crocodile can hold its breath under water for a long time. Some crocodiles are very big, as long as a car. You can see one at a zoo or in a book about animals.
Crop\n\nA crop is a plant that a farmer grows. It can be food like corn, carrots, or apples. Some crops are not food but are used to make things like clothes or rubber. Farmers plant many of the same crop in one big field. They take care of it until it is big enough to pick. Then people eat it or use it to make other things.
Cross\n\nA cross is a shape made of two lines. One line goes up and down, and the other line goes side to side. They meet in the middle. You can see a cross on a church or a hospital sign. Some people wear a small cross on a necklace. It can also be a mark you make with a pen, like when you put an X on a box.
Crossbow\n\nA crossbow is a tool that shoots short arrows. It has a wooden body and a curved part that pulls back. People used it long ago in battles because it was strong and could hit far away. Today, some people use it for fun in a sport. It is not a toy and can be dangerous.
Crossword\n\nA crossword is a word game on paper. It has a big square made of many little white and black boxes. You find it in newspapers or in puzzle books. Next to the big square is a list of hints. Each hint tells you a word to write in the white boxes. Some words go across, and some go down. You fill in one letter in each box. When all the white boxes are full, you have solved the puzzle.
Crow\n\nA crow is a big black bird. It has shiny black feathers, a strong beak, and two bright eyes. You can see it in parks, fields, or sitting on a fence. It eats many things like bugs, seeds, and leftover food. It is very smart and can even use small sticks to get food. Sometimes a group of crows flies together in the sky.
Crowd\n\nA crowd is a big group of people standing close together. It can happen at a park, a store, or a show. In a crowd, you see many faces, arms, and legs all around. People in a crowd might cheer, clap, or walk the same way. It can feel loud and busy, so it is good to hold a grown-up's hand.
Crown\n\nA crown is a special hat that a king or queen wears on their head. It is often made of shiny gold and has pretty stones on it. You can see a crown in storybooks about princes and princesses. It shows that the person is very important. Sometimes children make a paper crown to wear at a party.
Crumb\n\nA crumb is a tiny piece that breaks off from bread, a cookie, or a cake. It is very small, like a dot. You can find it on a plate or on the table after you eat. When you bite a cracker, little bits fall down — those are crumbs. A bird might pick up a crumb from the ground to eat.
Crumbly\n\nCrumbly means something breaks into tiny pieces very easily. It feels dry and falls apart when you touch it. You can find crumbly things in the kitchen, like a dry cookie or old bread. When you squeeze it, little bits fall onto your hand or the plate. A sandcastle made of dry sand is crumbly too.
Crunch\n\nA crunch is a loud, sharp sound. It happens when you step on a dry leaf or bite a hard cracker. You can hear it outside in the fall when leaves are on the ground. It is a short noise that feels crisp in your ears. Sometimes snow makes a crunch too when you walk on it with boots.
Crunchy\n\nCrunchy is a word for food that makes a loud sound when you bite it. It feels hard and breaks into little pieces in your mouth. You can find crunchy food in your kitchen, like a fresh apple, a carrot stick, or a dry cracker. When you eat it, you hear a crisp, snapping noise. Many kids like crunchy snacks because they are fun to chew.
Crusade\n\nA crusade is a long, hard fight for something people believe in. It happened a very long time ago when groups of people traveled far away to take back a special place. They wore heavy metal clothes and carried big shields. You might see pictures of them in old storybooks with red crosses on their chests. Today, the word can also mean any big effort to make something better, like a crusade to keep the park clean.
Crust\n\nA crust is the hard, brown outside part of bread or a pie. It is the part you see first when you look at it. When you bake dough in a hot oven, the outside gets dry and turns a little brown. That is the crust. It can be crunchy when you bite it. Some people like to eat the crust, and some people do not. On a pie, the crust holds all the yummy fruit inside.
Crustacean\n\nA crustacean is a small animal with a hard shell. It has a body with three parts: a head, a middle, and a tail. It has two long feelers on its head and two eyes. Most crustaceans live in water, like the ocean or a river. Some live on land, like the little gray bug that rolls into a ball. People eat many crustaceans, like shrimp, crab, and lobster. When it grows bigger, it must take off its old shell and grow a new one.
Crux\n\nCrux is a group of stars in the night sky. It looks like a cross made of four bright stars. You can see it if you live far south, like in Australia. Long ago, people on big boats used it to find their way across the water. Today, many countries put it on their flags because it is a special sign for them.
Cry\n\nCry is when water comes out of your eyes. It happens when you feel very sad, hurt, or sometimes very happy. The water is called tears, and it rolls down your cheeks. You might cry if you fall down and scrape your knee. Sometimes a big hug makes the cry stop.
Cryptography\n\nCryptography is a way to keep secrets safe. It changes a message so only the right person can read it. You can think of it like a magic box. You put your words in, lock it with a special key, and send it. The other person uses the same key to open the box and read the words. If someone else tries to look, they see only messy lines. People use it on computers to keep passwords and bank cards safe.
Crystal\n\nA crystal is a hard, shiny rock with flat sides. It is made of tiny bits that line up in a neat pattern, like a checkerboard. You can find crystals in the ground or in caves. Some are clear like glass, and some have colors like purple or pink. People use pretty crystals to make jewelry, like rings and necklaces. When light hits a crystal, it sparkles and shines. Snowflakes are tiny ice crystals that fall from the sky. Salt from the kitchen is also made of tiny cube-shaped crystals.
Cub\n\nA cub is a baby bear. It is small and has soft, fuzzy fur. You can find it in the forest with its mama bear. It drinks milk from its mama and learns to walk and play. When it grows up, it will be big and strong like its mama.
Cuba\n\nCuba is an island country in the warm blue sea. It is made of one big island and many tiny islands. The biggest city is Havana. People there speak Spanish. Cuba is famous for fun dance music like Salsa. Long ago, it grew lots of sugar. Today, many people visit Cuba to see the pretty beaches and old buildings.
Cube\n\nA cube is a solid shape that looks like a box. It has six flat sides, and each side is a square. All its sides are the same size. You can find cubes in many places, like a block you play with or a dice you roll in a game. A cube has eight pointy corners and twelve straight edges. It is fun to stack cubes to build a tower.
Cubism\n\nCubism is a way of making art. It shows a person or a thing from many sides all at once. The shapes look like blocks, squares, and triangles. Artists paint with just one color so you look at the shapes, not the colors. Later, they used bright colors and glued on bits of paper. You can see Cubism art in big buildings called museums.
Cubit\n\nA cubit is an old way to measure how long something is. It is the space from a grown-up's elbow to the tip of their middle finger. Long ago, people used it to measure cloth, rope, and wood. Today we use rulers and tape measures instead, so we do not see a cubit very often.
Cuckoo\n\nA cuckoo is a bird. It is gray with a long tail and strong legs. It lives in woods and open land in Europe and Asia. It does not build its own nest. Instead, it lays its eggs in the nests of other birds. The other birds then feed and care for the baby cuckoo. The baby grows very fast and pushes the other eggs out of the nest. The cuckoo makes a sound like its name: "cuck-oo."
Cucumber\n\nA cucumber is a long, green food that grows on a climbing plant. It has a smooth or bumpy skin and a cool, wet inside with tiny soft seeds. You can find it in a garden, a farm, or a store. People eat it raw in salads, cut it into sticks for a snack, or pickle it in jars. It tastes fresh and a little bit sweet.
Cue sports\n\nCue sports are games you play on a big table with balls and a long stick. The table is covered with soft green cloth and has bumpy sides so the balls stay on. You use the stick to push a white ball so it hits other balls. Some tables have little holes called pockets around the sides. When a ball falls into a pocket, it drops into a net. There are many kinds of cue sports. In one game, you try to make all your balls go into the pockets before the other player does. In another game, the balls have numbers and you must hit them in order. Some tables have no pockets at all, and you score by making the white ball touch two other balls and the bumpy sides. You might see a cue sports table at a game room or a friend's house.
Cuisine\n\nCuisine is a way of cooking food. It is the special food that people from one place like to make and eat. It uses things that grow near them, like plants and animals. For example, Italian cuisine has pizza and pasta. People in Japan eat a lot of fish and rice. Every country has its own cuisine. It is like a big food family with its own rules and tastes.
Culinary mustard\n\nCulinary mustard is a yellow or brown sauce people eat with food. It is made from tiny seeds of a plant. The seeds are crushed and mixed with water or sour juice. It tastes sharp and hot on the tongue. You can spread it on a sandwich or put it on a hot dog. Many fast-food places give it in a small packet.
Cultural heritage\n\nCultural heritage is the special things that people from long ago left behind. It can be old buildings, stories, songs, or ways of doing things. You can see it in a museum, an old house, or a special dance. People keep it safe so we can remember the past. For example, a very old castle or a song your grandma sings is part of cultural heritage.
Culture\n\nCulture is the way a group of people live and do things. It is like a big invisible blanket that wraps around them. It includes the food they eat, the songs they sing, the clothes they wear, and the stories they tell. You can see it in a country, a town, or even a family. For example, your family might have a special cake for birthdays. That is part of your family's culture.
Cumin\n\nCumin is a tiny seed that people use to make food taste warm and yummy. It is long and thin, with a light brown color. You can find it in the kitchen, in a small jar with other spices. People put it in soups, stews, and bread to give a cozy smell. In some places, like India, cooks use it in almost every meal. When you eat a taco or a bowl of chili, you might taste cumin without even knowing it.
Cumulonimbus cloud\n\nA cumulonimbus cloud is a big, tall cloud that brings storms. It looks like a mountain in the sky, with a flat top and a dark bottom. You see it when there is thunder, lightning, and heavy rain. It can also make hail and strong winds. Sometimes it makes a spinning funnel called a tornado. When you see this cloud, it is time to go inside and stay safe.
Cumulus cloud\n\nA cumulus cloud is a big, puffy white cloud in the sky. It looks like a soft ball of cotton or a piece of cauliflower. It has a flat bottom and a top that keeps changing shape. You can see it on a sunny day when the air is warm. It floats high up where birds fly. When it grows very tall and dark, it can bring rain and thunder.
Cuneiform\n\nCuneiform is a very old way of writing. It was made by pressing a stick into soft, wet clay. The marks look like little wedges, or tiny triangles. People used it a long, long time ago in a place far away. They wrote on flat pieces of clay that dried hard in the sun. It was used to write down stories, lists, and letters. Today, we can see old clay pieces with these marks in big museums.
Cup\n\nA cup is a small open container that holds drinks. It is round and has a flat bottom so it can stand on a table. You find it in the kitchen, at school, or at a picnic. People use it to drink water, milk, or juice. A cup can be made of plastic, glass, or paper. When you are thirsty, you pick it up and sip from the top.
Cupboard\n\nA cupboard is a big box with doors. It stands on the floor or hangs on a wall. You open the doors to put things inside. People keep plates, cups, and food in it. In the kitchen, you can find a cupboard near the sink. It helps keep a room tidy.
Curie\n\nCurie is a last name of a very smart woman. She was a scientist who studied tiny things we cannot see. She found out about two new kinds of stuff called radium and polonium. Her work helps doctors today when they take pictures of bones. Many people remember her as a brave and hard-working person.
Curiosity\n\nCuriosity is a feeling of wanting to know new things. It makes you look, touch, and ask questions. You can see it in babies when they reach for a toy. It is also in animals like cats and apes when they sniff or poke at something. Curiosity helps people learn and find out how the world works.
Curl\n\nA curl is a round, bouncy shape that hair or a ribbon can make. It looks like a little circle or a spring. You can see curls on a person's head when their hair is not straight. Some people use a hot tool to make curls in their hair. A curl can also be a small, round piece of paper or a lock of hair. When you wrap a ribbon around your finger, it makes a curl.
Curling\n\nCurling is a game played on ice. It uses heavy, round stones with handles. Two teams of four people slide the stones toward a round target at the other end. The target is called the house, and it has colored rings. Players sweep the ice with brooms to help the stone go where they want. The team with the stone closest to the center gets points. You can see curling at the Winter Olympics.
Curly\n\nCurly means something has lots of little round shapes, like a spring or a circle. It can be hair that twists and bounces. You can find curly lines in drawings or on a present with a ribbon. Some people use a special tool to make paper curly for art. A pig's tail is curly and looks like a little loop.
Currency\n\nCurrency is a kind of money that people use to buy things. It can be paper bills or round coins. Every country has its own currency with different colors and pictures. In the United States, people use dollars and cents. In Europe, many people use euros. When you go to a store, you give currency to get a toy or a snack. Some people keep currency in a wallet or a piggy bank.
Curry\n\nCurry is a warm, tasty food with lots of spices. It can be yellow, red, or brown, and it often has a thick, smooth sauce. You find it in many countries, like India and Thailand. People eat it with soft rice or flat bread called naan. Some curry is a little spicy, and some is very mild. You might see it at a family dinner or a food stand.
Curse\n\nA curse is a mean wish for bad luck. It is like saying angry words that hope something sad happens to another person. In old stories, a witch might put a curse on a prince and turn him into a frog. Long ago, people wrote curses on small stones and threw them into a river. They thought the river would carry the bad wish to the person they did not like. A curse is the opposite of a blessing, which is a kind wish for good things.
Curtain\n\nA curtain is a big piece of cloth that hangs in front of a window. It can be long or short, and it comes in many colors and patterns. You find it in houses, schools, and other buildings. It keeps bright sunlight out of a room so you can sleep or watch TV. It also gives you privacy so people outside cannot see in. At night, you pull it closed, and in the morning, you open it to let the light in.
Curve\n\nA curve is a line that bends or turns. It is never straight like a ruler. You can draw a curve on paper with a pencil. A circle is a curve that goes all the way around and meets itself. A rainbow in the sky is a big curve made of colors. A ball has a curved outside that feels round and smooth.
Cushion\n\nA cushion is a soft bag filled with fluffy stuff. It is often square or round and feels nice to touch. You can find it on a couch, a chair, or a bed. People use it to make sitting more comfy or to rest their head. Some cushions have bright colors or fun shapes like stars. A child might hug a cushion while watching a show.
Custom\n\nA custom is a way of doing things that a group of people has shared for a long time. It can be a special day, a song, a dance, or a kind of food. You might see it at a party, a holiday, or a family get-together. People do it because their parents and grandparents did it too. For example, blowing out candles on a birthday cake is a custom. Another custom is giving gifts on a special day.
Customer\n\nA customer is a person who buys something. It can be a grown-up or a child. You see a customer at a store, a market, or a restaurant. A customer gives money and gets a toy, food, or clothes. When you buy a candy with your coin, you are a customer.
Cut\n\nCut means to make something into two or more pieces. You can use scissors or a knife to do it. When you cut paper, it makes a straight line. People cut food like fruit or bread to share it. Be careful with sharp things that cut.
Cute\n\nCute means something is very nice to look at and makes you feel happy inside. It can be a small puppy with big eyes, a soft baby chick, or a tiny flower. You might see cute things in a picture book, at the park, or on a baby's face. When you see something cute, you may want to smile, laugh, or give it a gentle hug. A kitten with a little pink nose is a good example of cute.
Cutlery\n\nCutlery is the name for tools we use to eat food. It includes a knife, a fork, and a spoon. A knife cuts food into small pieces. A fork has pointy parts to pick up food. A spoon has a round end to scoop up soup or soft food. You see it on the table at home, at school, and in a restaurant. Sometimes it is made of shiny silver metal, and sometimes it is made of plastic. Plastic cutlery is used once and then thrown away. In some places, people use two sticks called chopsticks instead of a fork and knife.
Cycad\n\nA cycad is a very old kind of plant. It has a thick, short trunk and a crown of big, feather-like leaves. You can find it in warm places, like gardens or forests. It looks a little like a palm tree, but it is not the same. Long ago, dinosaurs ate its leaves. Today, some people grow it in pots as a pretty plant.
Cycle sport\n\nCycle sport is a game where people race on bikes. It has many kinds, like riding fast on roads, over bumpy hills, or on small dirt tracks. Some people also do tricks or play ball games on bikes. You can see bike races in big sports shows like the Olympics. Many people in Europe love to watch and cheer for the riders. A long time ago, the first bike race was in a big city called Paris.
Cyclone\n\nA cyclone is a big, spinning storm with very strong winds. It looks like a giant circle of clouds when you see it from high above. In the middle, there is a quiet part called the eye. You find cyclones over warm ocean water. They bring heavy rain and can knock down trees and houses when they hit land. People also call them hurricanes or typhoons in different places.
Cymbal\n\nA cymbal is a shiny, round metal plate that makes a loud sound when you hit it. It looks a little like a pot lid, but it has a bump in the middle with a strap. You can find it in music groups like bands and orchestras. A person hits it with a stick or bangs two together to make a crash or a soft ring. You might see one when you watch a parade or a drummer play.
Cypress\n\nA cypress is a tall green tree that stays green all year. It has thin, pointy leaves that look like little needles. You can find it in parks, gardens, and sometimes in big forests. People use its wood to build things like fences and boats. Its seed cones are small and round, like tiny brown balls. A long, long time ago, many of these trees grew where dinosaurs walked.
Cyprus\n\nCyprus is a big island in the sea. It is a country where people live. It has warm sun and blue water all around. The land has tall hills and a long river. Many people visit Cyprus to swim and play on the beach. Some parts of the island are ruled by different groups. People there speak two languages: Greek and Turkish. A long time ago, kings and queens ruled Cyprus. Now it has a leader called a president. You can see old stone houses and big churches there.
Cyrillic\n\nCyrillic is a way of writing words. It uses shapes called letters, just like the ABCs you know. Many people in faraway lands use it to write their language. You might see it on a map or in a book about other places. Some of its letters look a little like ours, but some look very different.
Cyrillic script\n\nCyrillic script is a way of writing words. It has many letters that look different from the letters we use in English. People in Russia and some other countries use it to write their language. You might see it on signs or in books from those places.
Cyrus The Great\n\nCyrus the Great was a king a long, long time ago. He was the leader of a big land called Persia. He was kind to the people he ruled and let them keep their own ways. Many people remember him as a fair and good king.
Czech language\n\nCzech is a way people talk and write. It is used by people who live in a country called the Czech Republic. It sounds a lot like another way of talking called Slovak, so people who use one can often understand the other. It has many rules for how words change their shape, which makes it tricky to learn. You might hear it in songs or stories from that part of the world.
Czech Republic\n\nThe Czech Republic is a country in the middle of Europe. It has no sea next to it, but it touches Germany, Austria, Slovakia, and Poland. The biggest city is Prague, and many people live there. People in this country speak Czech, a language that sounds a bit like Polish or Slovak. They use money called crowns to buy things. The land has hills, forests, and old castles. Long ago, kings and queens ruled there, and now people choose their own leaders. Some children might see pictures of Prague's pretty clock tower or stone bridge.
Dad\n\nA dad is the father of a child. He is a grown-up man who takes care of his family. He may be tall or short, and he might have a beard or glasses. Many dads go to work during the day and come home at night. He plays with you, reads stories, and helps you when you are sad. A dad gives big hugs and keeps you safe.
Dadaism\n\nDadaism is a way of making art that is silly and strange. It started a long time ago when some people were sad about a big war. They made art with odd shapes, cut-up paper, and funny sounds. It can be a picture that looks like nothing, or a poem with made-up words. Some people put everyday things like a bike wheel in a museum and called it art. Dadaism shows that art can be anything you want it to be.
Daddy\n\nA daddy is the dad in a family. He is a grown-up man who takes care of his children. He may be tall and strong, and he gives big hugs. A daddy goes to work to earn money for food and toys. At home, he plays games, reads books, and helps with baths. He loves his kids very much and keeps them safe.
Dagger\n\nA dagger is a small, sharp tool that looks like a knife. It has a pointy end and two sharp sides. Long ago, people used it to fight. It is small enough to hide under clothes. A dagger is not for cutting food like a regular knife. You might see one in a story about knights or pirates.
Dahlia\n\nA dahlia is a big, bright flower. It has many soft petals that form a round, puffy shape. You can find it in gardens where people plant pretty flowers. People like to grow it because it comes in many colors like red, pink, yellow, and white. It likes to grow in places with light that is not too strong. You might see a dahlia in a vase at home or in a park.
Daikon\n\nDaikon is a long, white vegetable that grows under the ground. It looks like a big, thick carrot, but it is white all over. You can find it in stores that sell food from Japan and other far-away places. People cut it into small pieces and put it in soups or salads. It tastes a little bit spicy, but not too hot. Some people also pickle it to make it sour and crunchy.
Dairy product\n\nA dairy product is a food made from milk. It comes from animals like cows and goats. You can find it in the fridge at the store or at home. People eat it for breakfast, lunch, or a snack. Milk, cheese, and yogurt are all dairy products. Ice cream is a sweet dairy product that many kids love.
Daisy\n\nA daisy is a small flower. It has a round yellow middle and many white petals around it. You can find it in grass, gardens, and parks. It opens its petals when the sun is out and closes them at night. Some people pick it to make a pretty chain or to play a game.
Dakar\n\nDakar is a big city by the ocean. It is the most important city in a country called Senegal, in Africa. It has many houses, buildings, and a big port where boats come and go. Long ago, people from far away came to live there. Now, it is where the leaders of Senegal work and meet. Many people live in Dakar, and the streets are busy with cars and markets.
Dalian\n\nDalian is a big city by the sea in China. It has a port where big boats come and go. The water there stays warm even in winter, so boats can use it all year. People use the port to send things to other countries nearby. Long ago, other countries wanted to use the port too.
Dallas\n\nDallas is a big city in Texas. It has tall buildings, busy streets, and many houses. Many people live there. It is home to sports teams like the Cowboys who play football. A long time ago, a president was hurt there, but today it is a happy place where families live and work.
Dam\n\nA dam is a big wall that stops water in a river. It makes a lake behind it. Some dams have a part where water can flow over or through it. People build dams to hold water so they can use it later. They use the water to drink, to help plants grow on farms, or to make power. A dam can also stop a town from getting too much water when it rains a lot. Some dams have steps like a ladder so fish can swim past it.
Damascus\n\nDamascus is a very old city where many people live. It has tall buildings, busy streets, and big markets full of shops. You can find it in a country called Syria, far away across the ocean. Long ago, people used it as a place to buy and sell things. Today, children go to school there and families walk in the old stone streets. One famous spot is a huge, beautiful mosque where people come to pray.
Damp\n\nDamp means a little bit wet. It is not dry, but it is not dripping with water either. You can feel it on a towel after you use it, or on the grass early in the morning. A cloth can be damp if you wipe a table with it. Sometimes the air in a room feels damp after a hot shower.
Damselfly\n\nA damselfly is a small flying bug. It has a long thin body and four clear wings. When it rests, it holds its wings together over its back. It lives near ponds and rivers. It flies over the water and catches tiny bugs to eat. It can be bright blue, green, or red. It is like a dragonfly but smaller and thinner.
Dance\n\nDance is moving your body to music. It can be fast or slow, big or small. You can do it alone or with friends. People dance at parties, on a stage, or just at home for fun. It is a way to show feelings without words. Some dances tell a story, like a play with no talking. You might see dancing in a movie or at a wedding. Ballet is one kind of dance where people spin and jump on their toes.
Dancer\n\nA dancer is a person who moves their body to music. They can jump, spin, and stretch in beautiful ways. You can see a dancer on a big stage with bright lights, or on a TV show. Some dancers wear special shoes and pretty clothes when they move. They practice many times to learn the steps. A dancer can make you feel happy just by watching them.
Dancing\n\nDancing is moving your body to music. It can be fast or slow, and you can do it alone or with friends. You see dancing at parties, on TV, or when people feel happy. It is a way to have fun and show how you feel without words. When you wiggle, jump, or spin to a song, that is dancing.
Danger\n\nDanger is when something can hurt you. It feels scary and makes your heart beat fast. You might see danger near a hot stove, a busy street, or a deep pool. When you see danger, you should stop and find a grown-up. A red stop sign or a loud siren can warn you about danger.
Dangerous\n\nDangerous means something can hurt you. A sharp knife is dangerous if you touch the blade. A hot stove is dangerous if you get too close. A busy street is dangerous if you do not look both ways. When something is dangerous, you must be very careful. Always ask a grown-up before you go near something dangerous.
Daniel (biblical figure)\n\nDaniel is a man from a very old book called the Bible. He lived a long, long time ago in a big city far away. People tell stories about him being very brave and wise. He talked to God and helped his friends. Many people still remember him today.
Danish language\n\nDanish is a way of talking that people use in a country called Denmark. It sounds a little like the words people say in Sweden and Norway. Some people also speak it on islands far away, like Greenland. It has its own special letters that look a bit like a and o with marks on top. If you meet someone from Denmark, they might say "hej" to mean hello and "tak" to mean thank you.
Dante Alighieri\n\nDante Alighieri was a man who wrote stories a long, long time ago. He lived in a country called Italy. He wrote a very big story about a trip through three places: a hot place, a climb-up place, and a happy sky place. Many people still read his story today.
Danube\n\nThe Danube is a very long river in Europe. It is the second-longest river there. It starts where two smaller rivers meet in Germany. Then it flows through many countries, like Austria, Hungary, and Romania. It ends in a big sea called the Black Sea. Big boats can travel on it to carry things. People live in cities next to it, like Vienna and Budapest. Many fish and birds live in and around it.
Dark\n\nDark is when there is no light. It looks black and you cannot see things clearly. You find it at night when the sun is gone, or in a room with no windows and the lights off. When it is dark, people turn on a lamp or use a flashlight to see. A child might see dark under the bed or in a closet with the door shut.
Darter\n\nA darter is a water bird with a long, thin neck. It looks a bit like a duck but has a very sharp, pointy beak. You can find it near warm lakes and rivers. When it swims, only its head and neck stick out of the water, so it looks like a snake. It catches fish by poking them with its beak. One kind of darter lives in America and is sometimes called an anhinga.
Darts\n\nDarts is a game where you throw small pointy sticks at a round board on the wall. It has a board with a red dot in the middle and many colored rings around it. You find it in some grown-up places like pubs, and people play it for fun. You stand a few steps away and try to hit the high-score spots. The best throw is when all three sticks land in the same tiny red or green spot.
Darwin\n\nDarwin is a name for a person. He was a man who thought a lot about animals and plants. He saw that living things change very slowly over a long, long time. He wrote a big book about this idea. Many people know his name because of his work.
Data\n\nData is a group of facts and numbers. It can be words, pictures, or sounds. People use it to learn things and make good choices. A computer keeps data as tiny bits called 0s and 1s. It can sort data very fast to help us find what we need. For example, your name and age are data that your school keeps.
Date\n\nA date is a sweet fruit that grows on a tall tree called a palm. It is small, brown, and a little wrinkly. You can find it in warm, sunny places. People eat it as a snack or put it in cakes and cookies. It tastes very sweet, like candy, but it is a fruit. You might see it in a box at the store or in a lunch bag.
Date palm\n\nA date palm is a tall tree that grows in hot, sunny places. It has a long trunk and big leaves that look like feathers. The leaves have sharp points, so you must be careful. It gives a sweet fruit called a date. People pick the dates and eat them. You can find dried dates in a store or at a market. Many date palms grow together in a group called an oasis.
Daughter\n\nA daughter is a girl child. She is the child of a mom and a dad. She can be a baby, a little kid, or a grown-up. A daughter lives with her family. She plays, learns, and helps at home. Many daughters love to draw, sing, or play with toys. A mom and dad take care of their daughter and love her very much.
David\n\nDavid was a king who lived a long, long time ago. He started as a boy who took care of sheep. He used a sling to throw a stone and beat a big giant named Goliath. He played a harp and wrote many songs. People remember him as a brave and good king.
Dawn\n\nDawn is the time when night ends and the sun comes up. It is the very first light of the day. The sky changes from dark to soft colors like pink, orange, and light blue. You can see it if you wake up very early. Birds start to sing at dawn, and the world feels quiet and new. It happens every morning, right before the sun peeks over the trees or houses.
Day\n\nA day is the time it takes for the Earth to spin all the way around. It has two parts: daytime and nighttime. Daytime is when the Sun shines on your side of the Earth. Nighttime is when your side faces away from the Sun and it is dark. A full day lasts 24 hours. That is how long the Earth needs to spin once. You wake up in the morning, play in the afternoon, and sleep at night. All of that is one day.
Daylight saving time\n\nDaylight saving time is a way to change the clock in summer. It makes the clock jump one hour ahead when summer starts. Then it jumps back one hour when summer ends. This gives more light in the evening. People can play outside longer after school or work. Many places in Europe and North America use it. But some places do not use it at all. Your phone or computer may change the time all by itself.
Dead\n\nDead means something that was once alive is not alive anymore. A dead plant is brown and dry. A dead bug does not move. When a pet dies, it stops eating, playing, and breathing. People feel sad when someone they love is dead.
Dead reckoning\n\nDead reckoning is a way to guess where you are. It starts from a place you know. Then you look at how fast you go and which way you turn. Sailors on a boat use it to find their spot on the big sea. Pilots in a plane use it to know where they fly. It is like drawing a line on a map as you move. Today, people also use a phone to find the way, but dead reckoning still helps when the phone cannot see the sky.
Dead Sea\n\nThe Dead Sea is a big lake with very salty water. It sits in a low, hot place between hills. The water is so salty that no fish can live in it. Because it is so salty, the water is heavy. When you go in, you float on top like a ball. People come from far away to float in it and put the mud on their skin.
Deafness\n\nDeafness means a person cannot hear sounds. It can be from birth or happen later. A deaf person may not hear a dog bark or a song play. Some deaf people use their hands to talk with sign language. They watch lips move to understand words. A deaf child can play, learn, and make friends just like any other child.
Deal\n\nA deal is when two people agree to share or trade things. It can be a promise like, "If you give me your cookie, I will give you my sticker." You see a deal when friends swap toys at the park. It helps people get what they want by giving something back. A deal is fair when both sides feel happy.
Dear\n\nDear is a word you say to someone you love. It is a sweet name for a person, like your mom, dad, or a friend. You can also start a letter with it, like "Dear Grandma." It feels warm and kind when you hear it.
Death\n\nDeath is when a living thing stops living. It means the body does not move, eat, or grow anymore. When a pet fish floats still in the water, it has died. People feel sad when someone they love dies. They may have a quiet time to say goodbye. After death, the body is put in a special box and buried in the ground. Many people believe the part inside that thinks and feels goes to a happy place.
Debit card\n\nA debit card is a small plastic card. It looks like a flat rectangle with numbers and your name on it. You keep it in your wallet or pocket. When you buy something at a store, you can use it to pay. The money comes right out of your own bank account. If there is no money left, it will not work. It is not the same as a credit card, which borrows money.
Debt\n\nDebt is when you get something now and promise to give it back later. It is often about money. If you borrow a toy from a friend, you have a debt until you give the toy back. Grown-ups sometimes borrow money from a bank to buy a house or a car. They pay back a little bit every month. If they cannot pay, the bank may take the house or car away. A credit card is another way to borrow money. You buy things with the card and pay the money back later. It is important to pay back what you owe so everyone stays happy.
Decapod\n\nA decapod is a water animal with a hard shell. It has ten legs, and the front two legs often have big pinching claws. You can find it in the ocean, in rivers, or in lakes. It walks on the bottom and uses its claws to grab food. A crab, a lobster, and a shrimp are all decapods.
Decathlon\n\nA decathlon is a big sports game with ten different parts. It happens on a track and a field. A person runs fast in short races, jumps over bars and into sand, and throws heavy things far. All ten parts happen over two days. The person with the most points wins. It is very hard, so only strong and fast people do it.
Decay\n\nDecay is when something slowly breaks down and falls apart. It happens to old food, leaves, and even big trees. You can see it when a fruit gets soft and brown spots. Tiny living things too small to see help it happen. After a long time, the thing turns back into dirt. That dirt helps new plants grow.
Deccan Plateau\n\nThe Deccan Plateau is a big, flat piece of land that sits up high. It is in the south part of India. It has a shape like a triangle. Tall hills called mountains stand on three sides of it. The ground is made of old, hard rock from volcanoes that blew up a long, long time ago. Many different trees, flowers, and animals live there. Some forests on it are even older than the big snowy mountains far away.
December\n\nDecember is the last month of the year. It has 31 days. In many places, it is cold and sometimes snow falls. People celebrate holidays like Christmas and New Year's Eve. They give gifts, sing songs, and spend time with family. You might see lights on houses and a big tree with shiny balls.
Decibel\n\nA decibel is a way to measure how loud a sound is. It uses a number that gets bigger when the sound is louder. You can find it on a sound meter or in a chart about noise. People use it to check if a sound is too loud and might hurt ears. A quiet whisper is a low number, and a big truck horn is a high number.
Decide\n\nDecide means to pick one thing when you have two or more choices. It is what you do when you think and then choose. You decide what toy to play with or what snack to eat. When you are at the park, you decide if you want to swing or slide. Every day, you make many small decisions.
Decimal\n\nDecimal is a way to write numbers using ten little signs. It uses the signs 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. You see it on clocks, money, and when you count your toys. A dot called a decimal point can show a part of a number, like half of a cookie. It helps people add, take away, and share things fairly.
Decision\n\nA decision is a choice you make. It happens when you pick one thing from two or more things. You make a decision every day, like what to eat for breakfast or which toy to play with. Sometimes a decision is easy, and sometimes it is hard. When you decide, you think about what you want and then you do it. Making a decision helps you move forward.
Deck\n\nA deck is a flat floor made of wood or boards. It is built outside a house, often in the back yard. People put chairs and a table on it to sit and eat when the sun is out. Some decks are high up and have stairs going down to the grass. You might see a deck at a friend's house or at a park by a lake.
Decomposition\n\nDecomposition is when living things break down after they die. It happens to plants, animals, and even old food. Tiny living things called microbes help do this work. They eat the soft parts and turn them into dirt. You can see it when a leaf on the ground gets brown and crumbly. Over time, the leaf becomes part of the soil. This helps new plants grow.
Decoration\n\nA decoration is something pretty you put on a thing or a place. It can be a shiny ball on a tree, a paper chain on a wall, or a flower on a table. People use it to make a room look happy for a party or a holiday. You might see it at a birthday with balloons and streamers. It makes a plain space feel special and fun.
Deductive reasoning\n\nDeductive reasoning is a way of thinking. It starts with a big idea that is true, and then it tells you something about one small thing. For example, if you know all dogs have fur, and you see a new dog, you can think: that dog has fur too. It helps you figure out new facts from facts you already know. People use it every day without even thinking about it.
Deep\n\nDeep means something goes far down or far inside. A deep hole in the ground is very hard to see the bottom of. The ocean is deep in many places, where the water is dark and cold. When you dig a deep hole in the sand at the beach, you might find wet sand under the dry sand. A deep voice sounds low and rumbly, like a big drum. If you take a deep breath, you fill your lungs all the way with air.
Deep-sea fish\n\nA deep-sea fish is a fish that lives way down in the dark part of the ocean. It has a body that can glow in the dark. You cannot see it at the beach because it stays very deep, where the water is cold and black. It uses its own light to find food or to trick other fish. Some kinds have a little light on their head that looks like a tiny lamp.
Deeply\n\nDeeply means going far down or feeling something very much. When you dig a hole deeply, you go way under the ground. When you love someone deeply, you love them a whole lot. You can also breathe deeply by taking a big, slow breath that fills your chest.
Deer\n\nA deer is a big animal with long legs and a short tail. It has soft brown fur and big dark eyes. Many deer live in woods and grassy fields. It eats leaves, grass, and small branches. A baby deer has white spots on its back to hide in the grass. The boy deer grows big antlers on its head. It uses the antlers to push other boy deer. In winter, the antlers fall off, and new ones grow back. You might see a deer in a park or in a forest.
Defensive wall\n\nA defensive wall is a tall, strong fence made of stone or brick. It is built around a town or city to keep people safe. Long ago, people made these walls to stop enemies from coming in. Some walls are very, very long and go across the land. You can still see old walls in some places today.
Deflation\n\nDeflation is when prices of things go down. It means your money can buy more than before. It happens when people stop spending and wait for even lower prices. Stores then sell less and may have to let workers go. It can be a sign that a country is having a hard time. A little bit of deflation can happen even when things are okay, if money moves slower than new things are made.
Deforestation\n\nDeforestation is when people cut down many trees and do not plant new ones. It happens in big forests where trees grow close together. People do it to make room for farms, houses, and roads. When the trees are gone, animals lose their homes and the dirt can wash away. The air also gets warmer because trees help keep it cool. Planting new trees is one way to help fix it.
Degree\n\nA degree is a piece of paper you get when you finish a big school. It shows you learned a lot about one thing, like numbers or stars. You can hang it on a wall at home. It has your name and a gold sticker on it. Mom or Dad might have one from when they were big kids.
Degree (angle)\n\nA degree is a way to measure how wide an angle opens. It is a small slice of a circle. A full circle has 360 of these slices. You can see degrees on a protractor, a flat half-circle tool used in school. When you draw two lines that meet, the space between them can be measured in degrees. A square corner is 90 degrees, and a straight line is 180 degrees.
Deity\n\nA deity is a very strong spirit that people believe in. It is like a king or queen of the world, but it cannot be seen. People think it lives up in the sky or in a special place far away. It can make the sun shine, the rain fall, and the wind blow. Some people call it a god or a goddess. Many people pray to it and ask for help. In some stories, there are many deities, like a big family. In other stories, there is only one.
Delhi\n\nDelhi is a big city in India. It has many old buildings and busy streets. It sits next to a river called the Yamuna. Many people live there and work in shops, offices, and schools. You can see a tall stone gate called India Gate that honors brave soldiers. The city has lots of cars and buses, and sometimes the air gets very dirty. People in Delhi eat yummy food like flat bread and spicy vegetables.
Delicious\n\nDelicious means something tastes very, very good. It is a word you say when food makes you happy. A cookie can be delicious. A juicy apple can be delicious. When you eat something yummy, you can smile and say, "This is delicious!"
Demand\n\nDemand is when you really want something and ask for it. It is like when you say, "I want a cookie!" That is a demand. In a store, if many people want the same toy, there is a big demand for it. When demand is high, the store may run out of the toy. Demand helps decide what things cost and how many are made.
Demeter\n\nDemeter is a kind and strong goddess from old Greek stories. She takes care of farms, plants, and the food that grows from the ground. Long ago, people thought she taught them how to plant seeds and pick ripe wheat. She has a daughter who goes away for part of the year, and that makes Demeter very sad. When she is sad, the plants stop growing and the land gets cold. When her daughter comes back, Demeter is happy again, and the flowers and trees wake up. That is why we have warm and cold times of the year.
Democracy\n\nDemocracy is a way a group of people makes choices together. It means the people pick their own leaders. In a big country, people vote for someone to speak for them. That person helps make rules that keep everyone safe. At school, you might see it when the class raises hands to pick a game. The game with the most hands wins. That is a small kind of democracy.
Democratic\n\nDemocratic means everyone gets a say. It is a way of making choices where people vote. In a classroom, if everyone raises a hand to pick a game, that is democratic. It is fair because each person counts the same. Many countries use this way to pick leaders.
Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nThe Democratic Republic of the Congo is a big country in Africa. It has green forests, big rivers, and many animals. People live in cities and small villages. Many speak French. It is a place with lots of music and dancing. Children play outside and help their families.
Den\n\nA den is a small, cozy room or a hidden space. It is often a quiet place in a house where a family can sit and read or watch TV. Some animals, like bears and foxes, make a den in the ground or under a tree. It is a safe spot to sleep and keep babies warm. You might have a den in your home with a soft couch and pillows.
Denali\n\nDenali is a very tall mountain. It is the tallest mountain in the United States. It is covered in white snow on top. It sits in a cold place called Alaska. People can see it from far away. Some people call it Mount McKinley too.
Denmark\n\nDenmark is a small country in the north of Europe. It is mostly flat with green fields, many small islands, and a long coast next to the sea. The capital city is Copenhagen, where you can see a little mermaid statue by the water. In Denmark, people speak Danish, and they have a king. Many people ride bikes to go to school or work. The weather is often rainy and windy, but in summer the days are long and bright.
Density\n\nDensity is how much stuff is packed into a space. It tells you if something is heavy for its size. A rock has high density because it is heavy and small. A big sponge has low density because it is light and full of holes. You can see density when you put things in water. A coin sinks because it is more dense than water. A cork floats because it is less dense than water.
Dental fillings\n\nA dental filling is something a dentist puts in a tooth to fix a hole. The hole happens when a part of the tooth gets sick and soft. The dentist cleans out the sick part with a tiny tool. Then they fill the hole with a hard, safe stuff so the tooth is strong again. After a filling, you can chew food without pain. You might see a shiny gray or white spot on the tooth where the filling is.
Dentist\n\nA dentist is a doctor who takes care of your teeth. She works in a room with a big chair that moves up and down. She looks inside your mouth with a tiny mirror and a bright light. She cleans your teeth and fixes any holes so they stay strong. You visit her to keep your smile happy and healthy.
Dentistry\n\nDentistry is a job about teeth. A person who does this job is called a dentist. The dentist looks at your teeth to see if they are healthy. He fixes holes in teeth and helps you keep them clean. He works in a small room with a big chair that goes up and down. He uses a tiny mirror and a small buzzing tool. Some helpers clean your teeth with a special brush. Other helpers fix teeth that are very crooked. Going to the dentist helps your smile stay bright and strong.
Dentures\n\nDentures are fake teeth that people put in their mouth. They look like real teeth and can be taken out. Some people wear them when their own teeth are gone. They help a person eat food and talk clearly. A dentist makes sure they fit just right so they feel good. At night, people take them out to rest.
Denver\n\nDenver is a big city in the state of Colorado. It sits right next to tall mountains called the Rocky Mountains. A river runs through it. People call it the Mile High City because it is one mile up in the air. You can see a gold top on a big building there. Many people go to Denver to watch sports. They cheer for teams like the Broncos and the Nuggets.
Depression\n\nDepression is a very sad feeling that stays for a long time. It can make a person feel tired and not want to play or eat. Sometimes it feels like a heavy gray cloud inside. A person with depression may cry a lot or feel empty. It is not the same as being sad for a little while. A doctor or a kind grown-up can help when someone feels this way.
Dermatology\n\nDermatology is a kind of doctor work about skin. It also looks at hair and the tiny holes that make sweat. A doctor who does this work is called a dermatologist. They help when skin gets red, bumpy, or itchy. They also check spots on skin to keep people safe. You might see one if you have a rash that does not go away.
Describe\n\nDescribe means to tell about something with words. When you describe a toy, you say what color it is, how big it is, and what it does. You can describe a person by telling about their hair, their smile, or the clothes they wear. At school, a teacher might ask you to describe a picture you drew. You use words to help someone see it in their mind, even if they are not looking at it.
Description\n\nA description is a way to tell about something with words. It helps you see a picture in your mind. When you say a ball is round, red, and bouncy, that is a description. You use it to tell a friend about your toy or your pet. It can be short or long, but it always paints a picture with words.
Desert\n\nA desert is a very dry place. It gets almost no rain. Some deserts are hot, like the Sahara, and some are cold, like Antarctica. The ground can be sand, rocks, or even snow. Not many plants or animals live there. A cactus is a plant that stores water inside its thick stem. A camel is an animal that can go a long time without drinking. It has a hump on its back. Many desert animals sleep during the hot day and come out at night when it is cool.
Design\n\nDesign is how something looks and works. It is the plan for making a thing pretty and easy to use. You can see design everywhere: on your clothes, in your room, and on the pages of a book. People called designers use colors, shapes, and lines to make things nice. For example, a chair is designed so you can sit on it and it looks good too. A toy is designed to be fun and safe. Even a picture you draw has design in it.
Desk\n\nA desk is a flat table where you sit to do work. It has four legs and a top, and sometimes it has little drawers to keep pencils and paper. You can find a desk in a school, a library, or at home in a bedroom. People use it to write, draw, or read books. A teacher might have a big desk at the front of the room.
Dessert\n\nA dessert is a sweet food you eat after a meal. It can be cold like ice cream or warm like a cookie. You find it at home, in a restaurant, or at a birthday party. People eat it as a treat when they want something yummy. A cake with candles on top is a dessert many kids love.
Detail\n\nA detail is a small, tiny part of something bigger. It is like a little piece that helps you see the whole thing better. You can find details in a picture, a story, or a toy. When you look closely, you notice the details. For example, a flower has details like its petals, color, and tiny lines on the leaves.
Detergent\n\nDetergent is a special soap that helps clean clothes. It can be a liquid you pour or a powder you scoop. You find it in a box or bottle at home, near the washing machine. It works by pulling dirt off the clothes and mixing it with water so the dirt washes away. When Mom or Dad does laundry, they put detergent in the machine to make your shirts and pants smell fresh and look bright.
Detroit\n\nDetroit is a big city in the United States. It sits next to a river, and on the other side is another country called Canada. Long ago, it was a very busy place where people made cars. That is why some people call it the Motor City. It has big buildings and wide roads. Many people live there, and some of them play on sports teams like the Lions and the Tigers. In the winter, it gets cold and snow falls from the sky.
Devil\n\nA devil is a bad spirit in some stories. It is often shown with red skin, horns on its head, and a pointy tail. Some people say it lives far away in a hot, dark place. It tries to make people do wrong things. In some books, it is also called Satan. Many people draw it to look scary, but no one has really seen it.
Dew\n\nDew is tiny drops of water that sit on grass and leaves in the morning. It looks like little shiny beads. You find it outside on the ground when the night is cool and the air is still. It forms when the air gets cold and lets go of some water. If it gets very cold, it turns into frost. You can see it on a spider web early in the day.
Dhaka\n\nDhaka is a very big city with many, many people. It is the main city of a country called Bangladesh. It sits next to a river, and the land around it is flat. Many people live and work there. They make clothes, shiny things, and other goods in big buildings. Some people go to school there to learn new things. The city has old, pretty buildings and new, tall ones too.
Diabetes\n\nDiabetes is a sickness where the body has trouble with sugar. It happens when a part inside the body does not make enough of a helper called insulin. Insulin helps sugar go from food into the body's cells for energy. Without enough insulin, too much sugar stays in the blood. People with diabetes check their blood sugar every day. They may need medicine or a special shot to stay healthy. Eating good food and moving the body helps too.
Dial\n\nA dial is a round part on a machine or tool. It has numbers or marks around the edge. You turn it with your fingers to pick a setting. You can find a dial on a stove to make the fire hotter or colder. A clock also has a dial with numbers to show the time. When you turn it, something changes, like the sound on a radio.
Dialect\n\nA dialect is a way of talking that a group of people share. It is like a special flavor of a language. People who live in the same town or come from the same place often use the same dialect. It can have its own words, sounds, and ways of saying things. For example, in the United States, some people say "soda" and others say "pop" for a fizzy drink. Both are English, but the word is different. Even though two groups speak the same language, their dialect can sound a little different. It is not wrong—just a different way of talking.
Dialog\n\nA dialog is when two or more people talk to each other. It is like a chat between friends. You see it in stories, movies, and plays when characters speak. In a book, it often has little marks around the words to show someone is talking. You have a dialog every day when you say hello and ask how someone is.
Diamond\n\nA diamond is a very hard, shiny stone. It is clear like glass, but some can be yellow, blue, or pink. People find it deep under the ground where it is very hot and heavy. It is so hard that it can cut other things, so workers use it on tools like saws. Many people wear it on rings because it sparkles in the light.
Diaper\n\nA diaper is a soft piece of clothing that catches pee and poop. It wraps around a baby's bottom and keeps the baby dry. You can find it in a baby's room or in a diaper bag when the family goes out. It is used for little children who are not yet using the toilet. Some diapers are made of cloth and can be washed and used again. Other diapers are made of paper and plastic and are thrown away after one use. A baby wears a diaper all day and night until they learn to use the potty.
Diary\n\nA diary is a book where you write down your thoughts and what you did each day. It has many blank pages inside. You can keep it in your room or in a school bag. People write in it with a pen or a pencil. It helps you remember fun things that happened. Some children write in a diary for school to share their feelings. A diary can be small enough to fit in a pocket.
Dice\n\nA dice is a small toy you roll to get a number. It looks like a little box with six flat sides. Each side has dots that show a number from one to six. You find it in board games at home or at a friend's house. When you roll it, it tells you how many steps to move your piece. Many games use it, like the one with the colorful money and little houses. Some dice have more sides or show pictures instead of dots.
Dictatorship\n\nA dictatorship is when one person makes all the rules for a whole country. This person is called a dictator. He does not let other people choose or vote. He tells everyone what to do, and people must obey. In some places, a dictator stays in power for a very long time. He might not let people say what they think or read what they want. This is different from a place where many people help decide the rules together.
Dictionary\n\nA dictionary is a book that tells you what words mean. It has many pages with words in ABC order, so you can find a word fast. You can see it at school, at the library, or at home on a shelf. When you do not know a word, you open it and read what the word means. Some dictionaries also show you how to say the word out loud. A dictionary helps you learn new words every day.
Did\n\nDid is a word we use when we talk about something that already happened. It is the past form of the word do. You can say, "I did my puzzle" or "She did a big jump." It helps us tell a story about what we finished before now.
Die\n\nA die is a small cube with dots on each side. It has six flat faces, and each face shows a number from one to six. You find dice in many board games at home or at school. People roll it on a table to get a random number. For example, when you play a game like Snakes and Ladders, you roll a die to see how many steps to move.
Diesel engine\n\nA diesel engine is a strong machine that makes things move. It is found in big trucks, trains, and digging machines. It does not use a spark like a car engine. Instead, it squeezes air and fuel very hard until they get hot and push. This gives it a lot of twisting power. Some have a part called a turbo that spins fast and pushes in more air to make it even stronger.
Diet\n\nA diet is all the food and drink a person has every day. It is what you eat for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Some people eat a diet with lots of fruits and vegetables. Others eat a diet with more meat or bread. A good diet helps your body grow strong and gives you energy to play.
Diet (nutrition)\n\nA diet is all the food a person eats every day. It can be different for each person. Some people eat lots of fruits and vegetables. Some people do not eat meat. A good diet helps you grow strong and feel good. If you eat too much sweet food and do not move enough, you may gain too much weight. A doctor or a food helper can tell you what to eat to stay healthy.
Difference\n\nA difference is when two things are not the same. It can be in how they look, like a big dog and a small dog. It can be in how they feel, like a soft pillow and a hard rock. You can find differences everywhere, like between a red apple and a green apple. When you see a difference, you can say what makes one thing not like the other.
Different\n\nDifferent means not the same. Two things can look different, like a red ball and a blue ball. They can feel different, like a soft pillow and a hard rock. People can be different too, with different hair or different favorite foods. It is okay to be different. It makes the world fun and full of new things to see.
Differently\n\nDifferently means not the same way. When you do something differently, you do it in a new way. For example, if you always use a red crayon to draw a sun, you can do it differently by using a yellow crayon. People try things differently to learn or to have fun. It helps you see new things.
Difficult\n\nDifficult means something is hard to do. It is the opposite of easy. When you try to tie your shoes for the first time, it can be difficult. But after you practice many times, it becomes easier. A puzzle with many pieces can be difficult. A big hill to climb can be difficult. But you can always ask a grown-up for help when something is difficult.
Diffusion\n\nDiffusion is when tiny bits of stuff move from a crowded place to a less crowded place. It happens all by itself, without anyone pushing. You can see it when a drop of food color spreads out in a glass of water. The color moves until the whole glass looks the same. In your body, air moves from your lungs into your blood this way. It helps your body get what it needs.
Dig\n\nA dig is when you use your hands or a tool to move dirt and make a hole. It can be small, like when you dig in a sandbox with a little shovel. You can find it at the beach, in a garden, or on a playground. People dig to plant seeds, to look for hidden things, or to build a sandcastle. A dog also digs with its paws to hide a bone or make a cool spot to lie down.
Digestion\n\nDigestion is how your body breaks down the food you eat. It starts in your mouth when you chew. The food then goes down a long tube to your tummy. Inside your tummy, the food gets mixed and mashed into a soft, wet mush. Next, the mush moves into a very long, twisty tube called the small intestine. Here, the good parts of the food go into your blood to give you energy. The parts your body cannot use keep moving along. They go into a wider tube called the large intestine, where water is taken out. What is left becomes poop, which leaves your body when you go to the bathroom. The whole trip takes about as long as a day at school.
Digit\n\nA digit is a single number sign, from 0 to 9. It looks like a little shape we write with a pencil. You see digits on clocks, phones, and in books. People use digits to count things, like how many cookies are on a plate. When you see the number 5, that is a digit.
Digital art\n\nDigital art is a kind of art made with a computer or a tablet. It can look like a painting, a drawing, a photo, or a moving picture. You can see it on a screen, like a phone or a TV. People use a special pen or their finger to make it. Some digital art is used in cartoons and games.
Digital camera\n\nA digital camera is a tool that takes pictures without using film. It has a small screen on the back so you can see the picture right away. You can find it in many homes, and some phones have one built in. It saves pictures on a tiny card inside, so you can keep hundreds of them. Later, you can put the pictures on a computer to look at them or print them out.
Dignity\n\nDignity is a feeling of being worthy and respected. It means you know you are important just because you are a person. Every person has it from the day they are born. When someone treats you kindly and fairly, they see your dignity. When someone is mean or hurts you, they forget your dignity. All people everywhere should have it, no matter how they look or where they come from.
Dim\n\nDim means not very bright. It is like a light that is soft and low. You see dim light in a room with a small lamp or when the sun is going down. People use dim light to feel cozy or to get ready for sleep. A nightlight in a child's room is often dim so it is not too bright.
Dimension\n\nA dimension is a way to tell where something is or how big it is. It is like a direction you can move. You use three of them every day: up and down, left and right, and front and back. These three help you know how tall, wide, and deep a box is. You can also use one more called time to say when something happens. Scientists and math people use even more kinds, but you do not see those at home.
Dimensional\n\nDimensional is a word that tells about how big or small something is. It can mean how long, how wide, or how tall a thing is. When you build with blocks, you think about the size of each block. A big box has more room inside than a little box. You use the idea of dimensional when you pick a shoe that fits your foot.
Dimetrodon\n\nDimetrodon is an animal that lived a long, long time ago, before people were on Earth. It had a big, tall fin on its back that looked like a sail. It walked on four legs and had a long tail. Its mouth had many sharp teeth for eating meat. It lived in hot, dry places, and its bones are found in rocks today. Some people think the sail helped it get warm from the sun.
Dimple\n\nA dimple is a small, soft dent in the skin. It often shows up on a cheek when someone smiles. Some people are born with it, and it stays with them as they grow. You can see it on a friend's face when they laugh. It makes a smile look extra sweet.
Ding\n\nA ding is a short, high sound. It is like a little bell that goes 'ding!' You can hear it when a timer is done in the kitchen. Sometimes a phone or a computer makes a ding to tell you a message came. A small metal bell on a bike also makes a ding when you push it.
Dingo\n\nA dingo is a wild dog that lives in Australia. It has pointy ears, a long nose, and a bushy tail. Its fur is usually yellow-brown, but it can also be tan, black, or white. It lives in groups called packs, but sometimes you see it alone. It hunts other animals like kangaroos and rabbits for food. It does not bark like a pet dog; it howls instead. Some people keep a dingo as a pet, but in many places that is not allowed. Farmers do not like it because it can hurt their sheep.
Dinner\n\nDinner is a big meal people eat together. It often happens in the early evening, when the sun is going down. Sometimes it can be in the middle of the day. It has different parts, like a main food and maybe a sweet treat after. On special days like Thanksgiving, families sit at a table and share a big dinner. You might eat dinner at home with your mom, dad, and brothers or sisters.
Dinosaur\n\nA dinosaur is a very old animal that lived long, long ago. It had a big body, strong legs, and a long tail. Some dinosaurs were as tall as a house, and some were as small as a chicken. They walked on land and laid eggs in nests. We can see their bones in big museums today. Some dinosaurs ate plants, and some ate meat. They are not alive anymore, but birds are their family.
Dip\n\nA dip is a thick, soft food that you scoop up with a chip, a cracker, or a piece of bread. It can be smooth or have little chunks in it. You find it in a bowl at a party or on the table at snack time. People dip a crunchy food into it to make the bite taste better. Some dips are made from beans, some from cheese, and some from yogurt. A dip can be white, red, green, or yellow. You may have seen a dip like salsa or hummus at a friend's house.
Diplodocus\n\nDiplodocus is a very big dinosaur that lived a long, long time ago. It had a long neck, a long tail, and a small head. It ate only plants, like leaves from tall trees. Its body was so big that it could push trees down to get food. People find its old bones in the ground, mostly in the western part of the United States. A full tail has never been found, so we do not know exactly how long it was. Some of these dinosaurs were as long as three school buses put together.
Diplomacy\n\nDiplomacy is how countries talk to each other. It is like when friends use kind words to solve a problem. People called diplomats do this job. They meet with leaders from other places to make deals and keep peace. Sometimes they talk about sharing things or stopping fights. A top diplomat is an ambassador. An ambassador lives in a far-away country and works in a big house called an embassy.
Direct current\n\nDirect current is a kind of electricity. It moves in one straight line, like water in a hose. A battery gives direct current to a toy or a flashlight. It is different from the electricity that comes out of the wall at home. That kind changes direction many times every second. Direct current is used in things that run on batteries, like a toy car or a remote control.
Direction\n\nA direction is the way you go to get somewhere. It tells you to go left, right, up, down, forward, or backward. When you walk to the kitchen, you follow a direction. A map shows directions with lines and arrows. When someone says "turn right at the big tree," they give you a direction.
Dirt\n\nDirt is the brown stuff on the ground outside. It is made of tiny bits of rock and old plants. You find it in gardens, parks, and forests. People use it to grow flowers and food. When it gets wet, it turns into mud. Kids like to dig in it and make mud pies.
Dirty\n\nDirty means something is not clean. It can have mud, dust, or sticky spots on it. You might see dirty hands after playing outside in the dirt. When clothes get dirty, we wash them with soap and water. A dirty floor needs a mop or a broom to make it clean again.
Disability\n\nA disability is something about a person's body or mind that works a little differently. It can make it harder to walk, see, hear, learn, or do other things. Some people are born with it, and some get it later. A person with a disability might use a wheelchair to move around or a special tool to help them talk. You cannot always see a disability just by looking at someone. Everyone is different, and that is okay.
Disappear\n\nDisappear means something goes away and you cannot see it anymore. It can happen when a thing moves behind a wall or when a person walks into another room. Sometimes it happens in a magic show, where a toy seems to vanish. When the sun goes down at night, the light disappears. If you put a toy in a box and close the lid, it disappears from your eyes.
Disaster\n\nA disaster is a very bad thing that happens and can hurt people or break things. It can be a big storm with strong wind and lots of rain. Sometimes it is a fire that burns trees and houses. People work together to stay safe and help each other after it happens.
Disco\n\nDisco is a kind of music that makes you want to dance. It has a strong beat that goes boom, boom, boom, and a deep low sound called a bass line. People play it at special dance places with big floors and shiny lights. You might hear it in old movies or at a party where grown-ups dance in funny clothes.
Discover\n\nTo discover is to find something new. It can be a place, a thing, or an idea that you did not know before. When you look under a rock and see a bug, that is a small discovery. People also discover big things, like a new land or a star in the sky. It feels exciting because you learn something for the first time.
Discovery\n\nDiscovery is when you find something new. It can be a thing you did not know before, like a hidden toy. It can also be a place no one has seen, like a cave. When you learn a new game, that is a discovery too. It makes you feel happy and surprised.
Discrete\n\nDiscrete means something is separate and not joined together. It is like having a pile of blocks where each block is its own piece. You can count each block one by one. It is not like water that flows all together. When you have a box of crayons, each crayon is discrete because you can pick up just one.
Discrimination\n\nDiscrimination is when someone is treated in a mean way just because of who they are. It can happen because of the color of their skin, if they are a boy or a girl, how old they are, or if their body works a little differently. It can mean not letting someone have a job, giving them less money for the same work, or not letting them live in a certain house. It can also be saying hurtful words or leaving someone out of a game. In many places, there are rules that say it is wrong to treat people this way. Still, sometimes people do it anyway, and that can make others feel very sad.
Discus throw\n\nDiscus throw is a sport where a person throws a round, flat disc far away. It is a heavy circle made of wood or metal. You can see it at big games like the Olympics. The person spins around fast and then lets it fly. The one who throws it the farthest wins. Long ago, people in Greece made statues of this sport.
Discuss\n\nDiscuss means to talk about something with another person. When you discuss, you share your ideas and listen to the other person's ideas too. It is like when you and a friend talk about which game to play. You might say what you like, and your friend says what they like. Then you both decide together. Grown-ups discuss things at work or at home to make plans. Discussing helps people understand each other better.
Discussion\n\nA discussion is when two or more people talk about something. It is like a chat where everyone shares their ideas. You can have a discussion at home, at school, or with friends. In a discussion, one person speaks and the others listen. Then someone else speaks. It helps people understand each other better. Sometimes a discussion can solve a problem or make a plan.
Disease\n\nA disease is when your body or mind feels sick. It can make you hurt, feel hot, or not want to play. Sometimes tiny germs get inside you and make you sick. You can catch germs from dirty water, old food, or a bug bite. A doctor can give you medicine to help you feel better. Some sicknesses go away fast, but others stay for a long time. To stay healthy, wash your hands and eat good food.
Disgust\n\nDisgust is a strong feeling you get when something seems yucky or gross. It can happen when you see a dirty bug, smell old food, or touch something sticky and icky. Your face might scrunch up, and you might say "eww" or push the thing away. It helps keep you safe from things that could make you sick. For example, if you see mold on bread, you feel disgust and do not eat it.
Dish\n\nA dish is a flat, round thing you put food on. It can be made of glass, clay, or hard plastic. You see it on the table at breakfast, lunch, and dinner. People use it to hold food like rice, pasta, or a sandwich. After eating, you wash it with soap and water so it is clean for next time.
Dishwasher\n\nA dishwasher is a big box that cleans plates, cups, and forks for you. It sits next to the sink in the kitchen. Inside, it has racks to hold the dishes and a sprayer that shoots hot water. You put the dirty dishes in, add soap, and press a button. It washes and dries them all by itself. A long time ago, a lady named Josephine made the first one that worked well. She wanted to keep her pretty plates safe from breaking.
Disney\n\nDisney is a name for a big company that makes happy movies and shows. It has a famous mouse with round ears and a castle that sparkles at the start of every film. You can see Disney movies at home on a screen or in a big dark room with lots of seats. Many children love to watch the stories and sing the songs. You might also visit a Disney park, where you can meet the mouse and ride fun trains and boats.
Disorder\n\nA disorder is when something in the body or mind does not work the way it should. It can make a person feel sick, sad, or mixed up. Some disorders make it hard to walk or talk. Others make feelings very big or very small. A doctor can help when someone has a disorder.
Distance\n\nDistance is how far one thing is from another thing. It is the space between two spots. You can measure it with a ruler or a tape. When you walk from your bed to the door, you move a distance. If you run around the playground in a big circle, you still go a distance, even if you end up where you started. The shortest way between two places is a straight line.
Distillation\n\nDistillation is a way to split a mix of liquids apart. It works when you heat the mix. One part turns into a gas first because it boils at a lower heat. The gas goes into a cold tube and turns back into a clean liquid. The other part stays behind in the pot. People use it to make clean water from salty water. They also use it to make drinks like juice from grapes into a grown-up drink. A long time ago, people used it to make nice smells from flowers.
Dive\n\nA dive is when you jump into water head first. It looks like a quick, smooth slide from the air into a pool or the sea. You can see people do it at a swimming pool or at the beach. It is a fun way to start swimming and feel the cool water all at once. Some people learn to dive from a board that bounces them high up.
Divide\n\nDivide means to split one big group into smaller groups that are all the same size. It is like sharing. If you have six cookies and two friends, you can divide the cookies so each friend gets three. You can also divide a pizza into slices. When you cut a sandwich in half, you divide it into two equal parts.
Diving\n\nDiving is jumping into water head-first or feet-first. It can be a fun game or a sport. A diver starts on a board high above a pool. They push off and fly through the air before splashing into the water. In a sport, they try to make a tiny splash and look very straight. There are different ways to jump, like curling into a ball or keeping legs flat. You can see diving at a big pool or on TV during a game.
Division (mathematics)\n\nDivision is a way to share things into equal groups. It is the opposite of times, which makes groups bigger. When you have six cookies and three friends, you can use division to give each friend two cookies. You can write it with a line, like six over three. Sometimes there is a little bit left over, called the rest. You cannot share by zero friends, because that does not make sense.
Diwali\n\nDiwali is a big, happy festival of lights. It comes once a year, in the fall. People light many small clay lamps and put them around their homes. They also make bright, colorful patterns on the floor with rice and flowers. Families wear new clothes and share sweets and gifts. It is a time to be with people you love and to feel happy and safe.
Djembe\n\nA djembe is a kind of drum. It looks like a big cup with a wide top and a narrow bottom. Its body is made from a tree trunk that is empty inside. The top is covered with soft goat skin. People play it with their hands, not with sticks. It makes a deep, happy sound. You can hear it in music from Africa.
Djibouti\n\nDjibouti is a country in Africa. It sits by the sea on the east side of the big land. The land has hot, dry deserts and tall mountains. Many people there speak Somali or Afar. They like to play soccer, and they ride a train to a nearby country called Ethiopia.
Dmitri Mendeleev\n\nDmitri Mendeleev was a very smart man who loved science. He made a big chart called the periodic table. It shows all the tiny building blocks that make up everything around us. He put the blocks in order so we can see which ones are alike. Many people use his chart to learn about the world.
Dnieper\n\nThe Dnieper is a very long river. It flows through three countries: Russia, Belarus, and Ukraine. It ends at a big sea called the Black Sea. Many boats can travel on it to move people and things. It is one of the longest rivers in Europe.
Do\n\nDo is a word that means to act or to make something happen. It is used when you move your body to finish a job. You can do a puzzle, do a dance, or do your chores. When you do something, you are not just sitting still—you are busy. It is a small word that helps you talk about all the things you try and finish every day.
Dock\n\nA dock is a long, flat place that sits above the water. It is made of wood or stone and sticks out from the land. People tie boats to it so the boats do not float away. You can walk on it to get into a boat or to look at the water. Some docks are small and quiet, and some are big with many boats. You might see one at a lake or by the sea.
Doctor\n\nA doctor is a person who helps you when you are sick. He wears a white coat and has a stethoscope to listen to your heart. You can find him in a hospital or a clinic. He asks you questions, looks at your body, and gives you medicine to feel better. When you have a cough or a fever, your mom or dad takes you to see him.
Dodo\n\nA dodo is a big bird that cannot fly. It has gray feathers, a round body, and a big hooked beak. It lived on an island far away in the warm sea. It ate fruit, seeds, and nuts from the ground. People and new animals came to the island and hurt the dodo. Now there are no dodos left anywhere in the world.
Does\n\nDoes are girl deer. They are brown and have four long legs. You can find them in forests and fields. They eat grass, leaves, and berries. A baby deer is called a fawn, and it has white spots on its back.
Dog\n\nA dog is an animal that many people keep as a pet. It has four legs, a tail, two ears, and a wet nose. It can be big like a tall chair or small like a shoe. A dog lives in a house with a family or on a farm. It likes to run, play fetch, and go for walks. Some dogs help people by finding lost things or keeping them safe. A baby dog is called a puppy. It is soft and warm to hug.
Doing\n\nDoing is when you are busy with something. It means you are moving, playing, or working on a task. When you color a picture, you are doing art. When you build with blocks, you are doing building. Doing can be fun, like dancing, or helpful, like cleaning up toys. Every day you do many things from morning until night.
Doll\n\nA doll is a toy that looks like a small person. It has a head, two arms, two legs, and a soft or hard body. You can find it in a toy store or at home in a child's room. A child holds it, dresses it, and pretends it is a real baby. Some dolls are made of cloth, some are made of plastic, and some are made of wood. A rag doll is soft and floppy, and a plastic doll is smooth and shiny. Many children love to play with a doll and take it everywhere.
Dollar\n\nA dollar is a piece of money. It is a green paper bill with a picture of a person on it. You can find it in your mom's or dad's wallet. People use it to buy toys, food, and clothes. One dollar can also be four shiny coins called quarters.
Dolphin\n\nA dolphin is a smart animal that lives in the water. It is not a fish, but a mammal like you. It has smooth gray skin and a long nose. It breathes air through a hole on top of its head. Dolphins live in big family groups called pods. They swim together and help each other. They eat fish and use sounds to find food in the dark water. You can see dolphins jump and play in the ocean.
Dome\n\nA dome is a round roof that looks like the top half of a ball. It sits on top of a building and makes the inside feel big and open. You can see it on important places like big churches or halls. When someone talks inside, the sound bounces and gets louder. Some big sports fields have a dome as a roof so people can play even when it rains.
Domestic sheep\n\nA domestic sheep is a fluffy animal that lives on a farm. It has a thick, soft coat called wool that covers its whole body. A farmer takes care of it and cuts the wool to make warm clothes. It has four legs and a short tail. A baby sheep is called a lamb, and it drinks milk from its mom. Sheep like to stay together in a big group called a flock. They eat grass and say "baa." You might see them in a green field on a sunny day.
Domestic worker\n\nA domestic worker is a person who helps in someone else's home. He or she gets paid for the work and can choose to leave the job. Many wear a special set of clothes called a uniform while working. Some clean the house, some cook food, and some take care of children or the garden. Long ago in big houses, there were many helpers like butlers, maids, and nannies. Today, people still hire helpers to do these jobs in their homes.
Domestication\n\nDomestication is when people take wild animals or plants and keep them for a long, long time. Over many years, it changes to be more helpful to people. A wild wolf became a dog, and now dogs live with people as pets. People also changed wild grass into wheat to make bread. Cows, sheep, and cats are other animals that people have kept and changed. Today, many animals and plants need people to take care of them.
Dominica\n\nDominica is a small island country in the warm blue sea. It has tall green mountains, thick forests, and a big lake that boils like a pot. Many birds and colorful flowers live there. People on the island speak English and grow bananas and other fruits. Some houses are painted in bright colors. It is a quiet place with not too many people. Sometimes big storms come and knock things down, but the people work together to fix them.
Dominican Republic\n\nThe Dominican Republic is a warm country on an island in the big blue sea. It has tall green mountains, sandy beaches, and rivers that flow to the ocean. Many people there speak Spanish and live in cities like Santo Domingo. They grow sweet sugar cane, brown cacao, and strong coffee. The weather is hot and sunny, with rain that helps the plants grow. Sometimes big storms called hurricanes come, but the people are strong and rebuild. You can see colorful houses and hear happy music when you visit.
Dominoes\n\nDominoes is a game with small flat blocks. Each block has a line in the middle and two sides. The sides show black dots, and some sides are empty. You play by putting blocks next to each other so the dots match. You can find it at home or at a friend's house. People play it at a table or on the floor. When you line up many blocks and push the first one, they all fall down in a row.
Donkey\n\nA donkey is an animal with long ears and a short, stiff mane. It looks a bit like a small horse, but its ears are much longer and its back is straighter. People keep donkeys on farms or in fields. It can carry heavy things on its back or pull a cart. A donkey makes a loud, funny sound called a bray. It can be gray, brown, black, or white. Some donkeys have a dark stripe down their back. A baby donkey is called a foal.
Door\n\nA door is a flat, hard thing that opens and closes. It lets people go into a room or a house. You can find it on cars and cages too. It has a handle you push or turn. Some doors swing, some slide, and some roll up. A small door at the bottom lets a dog go in and out.
Dormouse\n\nA dormouse is a tiny animal that looks like a mouse. It has soft fur, big round ears, and a long fluffy tail. It lives in trees in forests and woods. It sleeps for a very long time when it is cold outside—sometimes for six months! It wakes up now and then to eat food it hid nearby. It eats fruits, berries, nuts, and bugs. You might see one in a storybook, like the sleepy dormouse in Alice in Wonderland.
Dot\n\nA dot is a tiny, round mark. It looks like a small circle or a speck. You can find dots on a ladybug's back or on the letter i. People use a dot to end a sentence or to make a picture with many little points. When you draw with a pencil and tap the paper, you make a dot.
Double bass\n\nA double bass is a very big musical instrument that makes low, deep sounds. It looks like a giant violin with a tall wooden body, a long neck, and four or five thick metal strings. You can see it in an orchestra, a jazz band, or sometimes in a country music group. A player stands up or sits on a tall stool to play it. They press the strings with one hand and use the other hand to pull a bow across the strings or pluck them with their fingers. When it is plugged into a speaker, it can sound even louder. It is the biggest member of the violin family.
Dough\n\nDough is a soft, squishy mix of flour and water. It feels like play clay and can be rolled flat or shaped into balls. You find it in the kitchen when someone makes bread, cookies, or pizza. People push and stretch it with their hands, then bake it in a hot oven to turn it into yummy food. A pizza crust starts as a round piece of dough.
Doughnut\n\nA doughnut is a round, sweet treat. It is soft and has a hole in the middle. You can find it at a bakery or a coffee shop. People eat it for breakfast or as a snack. It can have pink, brown, or white icing on top. Some have tiny colorful sprinkles. A doughnut tastes sweet and makes a fun treat for a special day.
Dove\n\nA dove is a small, gentle bird. It has a round body, a short neck, and soft feathers that are often gray or white. You can see it in parks, gardens, and sometimes on city streets. It makes a soft cooing sound. It eats seeds and small fruits. Many people think of a dove as a sign of peace.
Down\n\nDown is the soft, fluffy feathers that grow under the hard outside feathers of birds like ducks and geese. It looks like tiny, light puffs that are very warm. You can find it inside cozy blankets, pillows, and puffy winter coats. It keeps you warm by trapping your body heat close to you. When you sleep under a down blanket, it feels like a soft, warm hug.
Dozen\n\nA dozen is a group of twelve things. It is a way to count things like eggs, cookies, or pencils. You can find a dozen eggs in a carton at the store. When you have twelve of something, you have one dozen. If you have six, you have half a dozen.
Dracula\n\nDracula is a story about a monster called a vampire. The vampire is named Dracula. In the story, he sleeps in a big old castle and only comes out at night. He drinks blood from people to stay alive. A group of friends try to stop him and keep everyone safe. The story was written a long time ago and is a little scary.
Draft\n\nA draft is a first try at writing or drawing something. It is not the final copy. You make a draft to get your ideas down on paper. After that, you can fix mistakes and make it better. A draft can have messy lines or words that are not perfect. Many people make a draft before they make a nice, clean version.
Dragon\n\nA dragon is a big, make-believe animal from old stories. It has a long body, a tail, and big wings like a bat. Some dragons have four legs, and some have two. Many dragons can blow fire from their mouth. You can find dragons in storybooks, movies, and on TV. In some tales, a dragon is scary and fights brave knights. In other tales, a dragon is a friend who helps people. You might see a dragon in a cartoon or a toy at the store.
Dragonfly\n\nA dragonfly is a flying bug with a long body and four clear wings. It has very big eyes that help it see all around. You can find it near ponds, lakes, and streams. It eats other bugs like mosquitoes and flies, catching them in the air. It flies fast and can even hover like a tiny helicopter.
Drain\n\nA drain is a hole that takes water away. It is often round and made of metal or plastic. You can find a drain in a sink, a bathtub, or on the street. When water goes down a drain, it flows through pipes under the ground. After you wash your hands, the water swirls and goes down the drain.
Drainage\n\nDrainage is a way to move extra water away from a place. It can be a ditch, a pipe, or a small stream that carries water out of the ground or off the land. Farmers use it to keep fields from getting too wet so plants can grow. In cities, it helps rain flow into big pipes under the street so roads do not flood. A long time ago, people in old cities made stone drains to keep their homes dry. Today, you can see a drain in your sink or bathtub at home.
Drainage basin\n\nA drainage basin is a big piece of land. All the rain that falls on it runs into one big river. It is like a giant bowl that catches water. Little streams carry the water into the big river. The Mississippi River has a very big basin. The Amazon River has a big basin too.
Drama\n\nDrama is a story that people act out. It can be on a stage, on TV, or in a movie. In a drama, people pretend to be someone else and show big feelings like happy, sad, or angry. It often has talking and moving around. You might see a drama at school when your class puts on a play. It is not always funny; sometimes it is very serious.
Draw\n\nTo draw means to make a picture with a pencil, a crayon, or a marker. It can be a picture of a person, an animal, or a house. You can draw on paper, on a whiteboard, or even on the ground with a stick. When you draw, you move your hand to make lines and shapes. Many children like to draw at school or at home. A drawing can be a gift for someone you love.
Drawer\n\nA drawer is a box that slides in and out of a bigger piece of furniture. It has a flat front and a handle or a knob to pull it open. You can find it in a desk, a dresser, or a kitchen cabinet. People use it to keep things tidy, like socks, pencils, or spoons. When you push it closed, everything inside stays hidden and safe.
Drawing\n\nDrawing is making a picture with lines. You use a pencil, pen, or chalk to make marks on paper. It can show a real thing, like a cat or a tree, or just fun shapes and colors. You can make parts of the picture darker by pressing harder or adding more lines. This is called shading. It makes the picture look round and real. Many children love to draw at home or at school.
Dream\n\nA dream is like a movie that plays in your head while you sleep. It can be happy, silly, or a little scary. You see pictures and hear sounds, but your eyes are closed. Most people have many dreams each night, but they only remember a few. Sometimes you know you are dreaming and can even fly or play with a dragon. A bad dream is called a nightmare. It can wake you up and make your heart beat fast. When you wake up, you can tell your family about your dream or draw a picture of it.
Dresden\n\nDresden is a big city in Germany. It sits next to a long river called the Elbe. Many people live there, and they work in shops, schools, and offices. A long time ago, the city was hurt in a war, so people had to build many houses again. Today, you can see big trains and trams that carry people around the city. It also has a place where airplanes take off and land.
Dress\n\nA dress is a piece of clothing that covers the top and bottom of the body in one piece. It has a top part and a skirt part that hangs down over the legs. You can see dresses in many places, like at a party, a wedding, or on a hot summer day. People wear it to look nice and feel cool. A dress can be short or long, and it comes in many colors and patterns. A little girl might wear a pretty dress to a birthday party.
Drift\n\nDrift means to move slowly without a plan. It is like a leaf floating on top of water. You can see it when a boat moves without a motor or when snow piles up in the wind. Sometimes people let their thoughts drift when they daydream. It is a soft, quiet kind of moving.
Drill\n\nA drill is a tool that makes round holes. It has a long, pointy part that spins very fast. You can find it in a toolbox or a workshop. People use it to put holes in wood, walls, or metal. It can also put in screws to hold things together. A toy drill can be fun to play with, but a real one is for grown-ups.
Drilling\n\nDrilling is making a hole in something hard. It uses a tool that spins around very fast. People drill into wood, metal, rock, or dirt. You might see a drill when a grown-up puts a screw in the wall to hang a picture. A long time ago, people used a stick and a rope to spin the stick and make a hole. Today, big machines drill deep into the ground to get water or oil. A small drill at home can make a hole in a board for a craft project.
Drink\n\nA drink is a liquid you put in your mouth and swallow. It can be water, milk, juice, or tea. You find drinks at home, at school, and at a store. People drink when they feel thirsty. Water is the best drink because it keeps your body happy and strong. If you run and play, you need a drink of water to feel good again.
Drinking water\n\nDrinking water is water that is clean and safe to drink. It looks clear and has no color. You can get it from a tap in your kitchen or from a water bottle. People drink it every day to stay healthy and strong. It helps your body work well. When you are thirsty, a glass of cold drinking water feels very good.
Drip\n\nA drip is a tiny drop of water that falls slowly. It looks like a small, round bead. You can see it when water leaks from a faucet or when rain slides off a leaf. It makes a soft tap-tap sound when it hits the sink. A drip can also be the action of the drop falling down, one after another.
Drive\n\nDrive means to make something move. You can drive a car on a road. You can drive a nail into wood with a hammer. It can also mean a strong wish to do something, like a drive to win a race.
Driver\n\nA driver is a person who makes a car, bus, or truck move. He sits in the front seat and holds the wheel with both hands. He looks at the road and stops at red lights. You see a driver every time you ride in a car with your family. He takes you to the store, to school, or to the park.
Driving\n\nDriving is making a car or a truck move on a road. It happens when a person sits in the front seat and uses a round wheel to turn left or right. You see driving every day on streets and big roads near your house. The person driving must go slow, stop at red lights, and watch out for people walking. A bus driver, a mom in a car, and a dad in a truck all do driving to go places.
Drone\n\nA drone is a small flying machine with no person inside. It has spinning blades on top that lift it into the air. You can see it flying outside in a park or a big open field. People use a remote to tell it where to go. Some drones have a camera to take pictures from high up. It can also carry a small box and drop it at a friend's house.
Drop\n\nA drop is a tiny bit of water or another liquid. It looks like a small, round ball. You can see a drop fall from a leaky faucet or from a cloud as rain. When you cry, a drop of water may roll down your cheek. A drop can also be a small fall, like when a toy drops from your hand to the floor.
Drought\n\nA drought is a long time with very little rain. It can last for many months or even years. When there is no rain, the ground gets dry and hard. Plants and crops cannot grow, and animals have no water to drink. People may not have enough food because the plants die. A drought can turn green land into a dry desert. It is a slow kind of bad weather that can hurt many living things.
Drug\n\nA drug is something you put in your body that changes how you feel. It can be a pill, a liquid, or a puff you breathe in. A doctor gives you some drugs to help you get better when you are sick. But some drugs are not safe and can hurt your body. You should only take a drug when a grown-up you trust gives it to you.
Drum\n\nA drum is a toy that makes sound when you hit it. It is round and has a tight skin on top. You can hit it with your hands or with two sticks. When you hit the skin, it makes a deep boom or a sharp tap. Drums are used in music to keep the beat. You can find a drum in a music room or at a parade. Some drums are big and some are small. A set of many drums and shiny metal plates is called a drum kit. It helps make songs feel fast or slow. You can even tap on a box like a drum.
Dry\n\nDry means there is no water or wetness. It feels rough or crumbly when you touch it. You find dry things in a sunny spot, like a towel left outside. When something is dry, it does not drip or feel cold and damp. A cracker is a dry food that snaps when you bite it.
Dubai\n\nDubai is a big city in a hot, sandy country. It has very tall buildings that touch the sky. One building is the tallest in the world. At night, water dances with lights and music near that building. Long ago, people came to Dubai by boat to trade. They also found pretty pearls in the sea. Today, many people visit to see the shiny shops and fun parks. It is very hot there in summer, so people stay inside where it is cool.
Dublin\n\nDublin is a big city in a country called Ireland. It has a river that runs through the middle, splitting it into two sides. Many people live there, and it is the biggest city on the whole island. A long time ago, people called Vikings built the first part of the city by the river. Some famous story writers grew up in Dublin. It also has a huge sports field where people play games with balls and sticks. Many fans come to watch the games and cheer.
Duck\n\nA duck is a bird that lives near water. It has a flat beak, webbed feet, and feathers that are often brown, gray, or black. You can see it swimming on a pond or a lake. It eats small water plants and tiny bugs. A baby duck is called a duckling. It follows its mom in a line on the water.
Dull\n\nDull means not sharp. A dull pencil does not write well. A dull knife does not cut easily. When a toy's color is dull, it is not bright. You can make a pencil sharp again with a sharpener. A dull sound is soft and not loud, like a quiet thud.
Dumpling\n\nA dumpling is a small piece of food wrapped in soft dough. It can be sweet or salty. You cook it in hot water or over steam. In some places, people put meat or vegetables inside. You can eat it with a spoon or your fingers. It is warm and soft when you bite it.
Dune\n\nA dune is a big hill made of sand. It looks like a bumpy mountain, but it is soft and yellow or tan. You can find it in hot, dry places called deserts or next to the ocean on a beach. Wind blows the sand into a pile and makes it grow taller. Sometimes it moves a little bit when the wind pushes the sand. If you ever go to a beach, you might see a small dune near the water.
Dung beetle\n\nA dung beetle is a small bug that eats animal poop. It has a hard, shiny shell and six legs. You can find it in fields, forests, and farms where big animals live. It rolls poop into a ball and pushes it with its back legs. The ball is food for its babies. Sometimes it hides the ball under the ground.
Durian\n\nA durian is a big fruit with a very strong smell. It has a hard, green or brown shell covered with soft, pointy bumps. Inside, the soft yellow part is the part people eat. It grows in hot, wet places far away, like Thailand and Malaysia. Some people love the taste and call it the king of fruits. But the smell is so strong that many hotels and buses do not let people bring it inside. The seeds can be cooked and eaten too.
During\n\nDuring means while something else is happening. It is a word we use to talk about time. You might eat a snack during a movie. You might play outside during the day. It helps us know when one thing happens inside another thing.
Dusk\n\nDusk is the time when the day ends and night begins. It happens after the sun goes down but before the sky turns fully dark. The sky often looks orange, pink, or purple. You can see dusk outside your window in the evening. Birds sometimes sing their last songs at dusk. It is a quiet time when the world gets ready for sleep.
Dust\n\nDust is tiny bits of dirt and fluff that float in the air. It looks like a soft gray coat on tables and floors. You find it in every house, on shelves, and under the bed. When you wipe a cloth over a table, it picks up the dust. A sunbeam through a window shows it dancing in the light.
Dust storm\n\nA dust storm is a big wind that carries lots of sand and dirt. It looks like a tall, dark wall of dust moving across the land. You can see it in dry, open places like deserts. It makes the sky turn dark and the air hard to breathe. People cover their mouths and eyes when it comes. After it passes, a layer of fine dust may cover cars and houses.
Dusty\n\nDusty means something has a lot of tiny bits of dirt on it. It looks like a thin gray or brown coat. You find it on old books, on a shelf that nobody cleans, or on a toy left under the bed. When you touch it, it feels dry and soft, and it can make you sneeze. A dusty room needs a wipe with a wet cloth to make it clean again.
Dutch language\n\nDutch is a way of talking that people use in some countries. It sounds a little like English and a little like German. Many people speak it in the Netherlands, and also in a part of Belgium and a far-away country called Suriname. It uses the same letters as English, like A, B, C. Some words are easy: "ja" means yes, and "nee" means no. If you count to three, you say "een, twee, drie."
Dvd\n\nA DVD is a shiny round disc. It looks like a CD but can hold more. You put it in a player to watch movies or shows on a TV. It spins around and a light reads the pictures and sounds inside. Many people have DVDs at home in a box or on a shelf.
Dwarf galaxy\n\nA dwarf galaxy is a tiny group of stars. It is much smaller than our big star home, the Milky Way. You can find it floating in space near bigger star groups. Sometimes it moves around a bigger galaxy, like the Moon moves around Earth. The Milky Way has many of these little star groups dancing around it.
Dwarf planet\n\nA dwarf planet is a round ball of rock or ice that goes around the Sun. It is smaller than a planet, but bigger than most space rocks. Some dwarf planets live in a far-away ring of rocks past Neptune. Others live in a belt of rocks between Mars and Jupiter. A dwarf planet has not pushed away all the other rocks near its path. One dwarf planet you might know is Pluto. It was once called a planet, but now it is a dwarf planet.
Dye\n\nDye is a colored liquid or powder that changes the color of things. It can be made from plants like berries, roots, or leaves. People also make it from special stuff in a factory. You put it on cloth to make a shirt red, blue, or yellow. It soaks into the cloth and stays there, even when you wash it. Some dye comes from nature, and some is made by people.
Dynamite\n\nDynamite is a strong boom-stick that people use to break big rocks. It looks like a soft, brown tube. Workers put it deep inside mountains or old buildings. When they light a long string, it goes BOOM and breaks the hard stone into small pieces. You might see it in a cartoon when a character runs away from a big blast.
Dynasty\n\nA dynasty is a family that rules a country for a long time. It is like a team where the leader's job passes from parent to child. You can find dynasties in old stories about kings and queens. They make big choices for the land and the people. A long time ago, many places had a dynasty, like old China or old Egypt.
E-mail\n\nE-mail is a letter you send on a computer or phone. It is like a paper letter, but it moves very fast through the Internet. You write words and can add a picture. It goes to a friend far away in just a few seconds. People use it to say hello, share news, or send a funny story. You need a special name, like a house address, to send it to the right person. Many people check their e-mail every day.
Each\n\nEach means every one in a group. It is a word we use when we talk about all the things or people, one by one. You might hear it when someone says, "Each child gets a cookie." That means every single child gets one. It helps us share fairly and make sure nobody is left out.
Eagle\n\nAn eagle is a big, strong bird that flies high in the sky. It has wide wings, a sharp hooked beak, and strong feet with claws called talons. You can find eagles in many places around the world, like mountains, forests, and near big lakes. It hunts during the day and has very good eyes to see small animals from far away. It catches food like fish or rabbits with its talons and uses its beak to tear the meat. An eagle is a meat-eater, so it only eats other animals.
Ear\n\nAn ear is a part of the body that helps you hear sounds. It has a soft outside part that you can see on the side of your head. Inside, there are tiny parts that catch sound and send it to your brain. People and many animals have two ears, one on each side. It also makes a sticky yellow stuff called earwax that keeps the inside clean. When you listen to a song or a friend talking, your ears are working hard.
Eared seal\n\nAn eared seal is a kind of seal that lives in the ocean. It has small ears you can see on the outside of its head. It uses its front flippers to push itself along on land. You can find it on rocky beaches or swimming in cold water. At the zoo or aquarium, you might see it clapping its flippers and barking loudly.
Earless seal\n\nAn earless seal is a big animal that lives in the sea. It has a round, smooth head with no ears you can see. It has a thick body and short flippers to swim fast. You can find it in cold ocean water near the top of the world. It comes onto land or ice to rest and have babies. A baby seal has soft white fur.
Early\n\nEarly means before the usual time. It is when something happens sooner than you think. You might wake up early in the morning when the sun is just coming up. If you get to school early, you are there before the bell rings. A flower that blooms early pops out before the other flowers. Being early can give you extra time to play or get ready.
Early childhood education\n\nEarly childhood education is a way to help young children learn and grow. It happens before kids turn eight years old. It takes place in places like preschools, daycares, and kindergartens. Teachers use songs, stories, and games to teach letters, numbers, and how to share. It helps children get ready for big school.
Early human migrations\n\nA long, long time ago, people moved from one big land to another big land. They walked very far to find new homes. They crossed land that is now under water. Some of them met other people who already lived there. Today, all people come from those first travelers.
Early Modern Period\n\nThe Early Modern Period is a big stretch of time in history. It came after the Middle Ages and before the time we live in now. During this time, people made new tools and sailed big ships to faraway lands. They also wrote many books and made beautiful art. You can see old things from this time in a museum, like shiny armor or old maps.
Earth\n\nEarth is the big round ball we live on. It is the third planet from the Sun. It looks blue and green from far away because it has lots of water and land. We find it in space, moving around the Sun. It is our home, and it gives us air to breathe, water to drink, and food to eat. You can see a small part of it when you look out the window or play outside.
Earth science\n\nEarth science is the study of our big home, the Earth. It looks at the ground, the water, the air, and even the sky above. It helps us know why the ground shakes, why it rains, and why the ocean has waves. People who do this work use tools to watch the weather and dig into rocks. They help keep us safe from big storms and find clean water to drink.
Earth's crust\n\nThe Earth's crust is the hard, rocky skin on the outside of our planet. It is like a giant eggshell, but much thicker under the land and thinner under the ocean. It is made of different kinds of rocks, and some of them are very old. The crust is broken into big pieces that move very, very slowly. When they bump into each other, they can push up tall mountains. You can see the crust when you look at a rocky hill or a cliff by the sea.
Earth's inner core\n\nEarth's inner core is a big ball of hot, hard metal at the very middle of our planet. It is made mostly of iron and nickel. It is so hot that it is as hot as the outside of the Sun. It is very, very deep under the ground, more than 5,000 kilometers down. The weight of everything above it pushes down so hard that the metal stays solid even though it is so hot. Scientists found out about it by listening to shakes from big earthquakes. The shakes move through the hard ball and tell us it is there.
Earth's magnetic field\n\nEarth's magnetic field is a big, invisible bubble around our planet. It acts like a giant shield that you cannot see. It is made deep inside the Earth, where hot, melted rock moves around. This bubble keeps away tiny, harmful bits that come from the sun. It also helps a compass point north, so people can find their way. Some birds and fish use it to travel far when the seasons change. Near the very top and bottom of the Earth, the bubble is strongest. Sometimes, the bubble even flips, so north becomes south and south becomes north, but that takes a very, very long time.
Earthquake\n\nAn earthquake is when the ground shakes very hard. It happens because big pieces of rock under the ground move and bump into each other. The shaking can make buildings fall down and things break. People use a special tool to see how strong the shaking is. Sometimes after a big shake, smaller shakes come later. If it happens under the ocean, it can make a giant wave that hits the land.
Earthworm\n\nAn earthworm is a small animal that lives in the dirt. It has a long, soft body with no legs and no eyes. Its body is made of many tiny rings. You can find it in wet ground, like in a garden or after rain. It digs tunnels in the soil, which helps plants grow. It eats old leaves and bits of dead plants. When it moves, it stretches and squeezes its body. It is good for the earth because it makes the soil soft and rich.
Earwig\n\nAn earwig is a small bug. It has a flat body and is dark brown or black. It has six legs and two long feelers on its head. At the back end, it has two little pinchers. It lives in wet, dark spots like under leaves or in old wood. Sometimes you see it in a bathroom or basement. It eats plants, fruit, and tiny bugs. It can give off a bad smell, so birds do not like to eat it.
Easily\n\nEasily means doing something without much work. It is like when you pick up a light toy, not a heavy box. You can find it in many things you do every day. For example, you can easily put on your shoes if they have no laces. It is also how a bird flies without thinking hard.
East\n\nEast is a direction. It is the way the sun comes up in the morning. If you face the sunrise, you are looking east. On a map, east is on the right side. Many birds fly east when the weather gets cold. Some people say, "The sun rises in the east."
East Africa\n\nEast Africa is a big part of the world. It is on the east side of a very big land called Africa. It has hot sun, tall grass, and big animals like lions and elephants. Long ago, the very first people lived there. Today, many people live in East Africa and speak many different words.
East Asia\n\nEast Asia is a big part of the world. It is in the east side of a huge land called Asia. Many countries are in East Asia, like China, Japan, and Korea. More than one billion people live there. They speak many different languages and eat yummy food like rice and noodles. You can see pandas in China and cherry flowers in Japan. East Asia has tall mountains and big cities with bright lights.
East China Sea\n\nThe East China Sea is a big body of water next to China. It is part of the huge ocean called the Pacific. It touches the land of China, Korea, Japan, and Taiwan. Many rivers flow into it, and the biggest one is the Yangtze River. Big boats sail on it to carry things from one place to another. People catch fish in it, and sometimes you can see it on a map as a blue shape near the land.
East Timor\n\nEast Timor is a small country on an island. It is in a warm part of the world near the big blue sea. It has many mountains and green hills. People live in towns and villages there. The biggest town is called Dili. A long time ago, people from far away came to live on the island. They grew food and fished in the sea. Today, people in East Timor speak their own words and also words from a place called Portugal. Children play in the sun and help their families.
Easter\n\nEaster is a happy spring holiday. It is a day when some people remember that Jesus came back to life. Many children get a basket with candy and chocolate eggs. They also look for eggs hidden in the grass by a bunny. The bunny is a make-believe friend who brings treats. People often wear new, bright clothes and go to church. Easter happens on a Sunday in March or April every year.
Easter Island\n\nEaster Island is a small piece of land in the big blue ocean. It has huge stone faces called Moai that stand near the sea. The faces were made long ago by people who lived there. The island also has a big round hole in the ground with a lake inside. Today, people live in a town called Hanga Roa. Many visitors come to see the stone faces.
Eastern\n\nEastern means the way where the sun comes up. It is one of the four main ways we look at a map. When you face the sunrise, you are looking east. Many places have the word East in their name, like East Coast. In stories, wise people sometimes come from the East.
Eastern Europe\n\nEastern Europe is a big part of the world with many countries. It is on the east side of Europe. People there speak different languages and have their own songs and stories. Some countries in Eastern Europe are Poland, Romania, and Bulgaria. Many families there cook warm soups and bread. In winter, it gets very cold and snow covers the ground.
Eastern Orthodox Church\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church is a big family of Christians. It has many beautiful buildings with round tops and gold crosses. You can find it in countries like Greece, Russia, and Serbia. People go there to pray, light candles, and sing songs about God. They also look at special pictures called icons that tell stories about Jesus and holy people.
Eastern Philosophy\n\nEastern philosophy is a way of thinking about big questions. It comes from places like China, India, and Japan. It asks things like: How should we live? What is real? It often talks about being calm, kind, and wise. Many people learn from it to feel peaceful inside.
Easy\n\nEasy means something is not hard to do. It is like when you put on your shoes all by yourself. You can find easy things everywhere, like a simple puzzle or a short walk. When a job is easy, it does not take much work or time. An example is picking up your toys when they are all in one spot.
Eat\n\nEat means to put food in your mouth, chew it, and swallow it. You do it when you are hungry. It helps your body grow big and strong. People eat many kinds of food like apples, bread, and rice. Animals eat too, like a bunny eating a carrot.
Eating\n\nEating is when you put food in your mouth and swallow it. It gives your body energy to run, play, and grow. People eat many kinds of food like fruits, meat, and bread. Animals eat too, but they eat different things. A cow eats grass, and a bird eats seeds. You eat breakfast in the morning, lunch at noon, and dinner at night. Eating together with family is fun.
Echidna\n\nAn echidna is a small animal with a long nose and sharp spikes on its back. It looks a little like a hedgehog. It lives in Australia and nearby islands. It digs a hole very fast with its strong claws to hide from danger. It eats ants and termites by catching them with its long, sticky tongue. A mother echidna lays eggs, which is very special for an animal with fur.
Echinoderm\n\nAn echinoderm is an animal that lives in the ocean. It has a body with five parts around a middle, like a star shape. You can find it on the sea floor, near the shore, or on reefs. It moves with tiny tube feet that fill with water. Some kinds are sea stars, sea urchins, and sea cucumbers. If it loses an arm, it can grow a new one.
Echo\n\nAn echo is a sound that bounces back to you. It happens when you yell in a big, empty room or near a tall mountain. The sound hits a hard wall or a rock and comes back to your ears. It sounds just like your voice, but a little softer and later. You can try it by clapping your hands in a quiet hallway.
Eclipse\n\nAn eclipse is when one big thing in the sky moves in front of another big thing. It happens with the Sun, the Moon, and the Earth. In a solar eclipse, the Moon blocks the Sun, and the sky gets dark for a short time. In a lunar eclipse, the Earth blocks the Sun, and the Moon looks red. You can see an eclipse if you look up at the right time, but you must wear special glasses to keep your eyes safe.
Ecology\n\nEcology is the study of how living things and their homes work together. It looks at plants, animals, and tiny bugs, and how they share food, water, and space. You can see ecology in a park, a pond, or even your own backyard. A bee visiting a flower is part of ecology. The flower gives food to the bee, and the bee helps the flower make seeds. All living things are connected like a big web.
Economic growth\n\nEconomic growth means people make more things and do more helpful jobs. It happens when workers build more houses, grow more food, or make more toys. Sometimes new tools and machines help them work faster. When there is more growth, families can buy more things they need. You might see a new shop open or a new road being built near your home.
Economic inequality\n\nEconomic inequality means some people have much more money than others. It is about how money and things are not shared the same way. Some families can buy a big house and lots of food, while other families have a very small place to live and not enough to eat. In some countries, the gap is very big, and in other countries, it is smaller. Grown-ups in charge try to make the gap smaller by helping people who have less.
Economic policy\n\nEconomic policy is the set of rules a country makes about money and jobs. It decides how much tax people pay and how the country spends its money. It also makes rules for banks and shops so things are fair. When the country builds a new road or school, that is part of its economic policy. It helps decide if things cost more or less at the store.
Economics\n\nEconomics is about how people choose to use things they have. It looks at how we make, share, and use food, toys, and other things we need. You see it at home when your family picks what to buy at the store. It also happens when a grown-up goes to work to earn money. The money helps pay for your house, your clothes, and your snacks.
Economy\n\nAn economy is how people make and share things we need. It has two parts: goods and services. Goods are things you can touch, like apples or shoes. Services are helpful things people do, like cutting hair or fixing a car. People use money to buy goods and services. Money makes it easy to trade. A long time ago, people traded one thing for another, like a chicken for a bag of rice. Today, we use coins and paper money. The word economy comes from an old word that means taking care of a home. Just like a family plans how to use food and toys, a big group of people plans how to make and share things.
Ecosystem\n\nAn ecosystem is all the living things in one place, like a forest or a pond. It has plants, animals, and tiny bugs that you cannot see. They all live together and need each other. A pond ecosystem has frogs, fish, and water plants. A desert ecosystem has cacti, snakes, and small animals that like dry sand. Every ecosystem needs sunlight so plants can grow. Plants make food from sunlight, and animals eat the plants or other animals. When the weather changes, the ecosystem can change too.
Ecuador\n\nEcuador is a small country in South America. It sits right on the equator, an imaginary line around the middle of the Earth. It has tall mountains called the Andes, green jungles, and a coast by the big Pacific Ocean. People grow bananas and cocoa there. The capital city is Quito, high up in the mountains. Many old, pretty buildings are in Quito. Far away in the ocean, it has islands with lots of animals like big turtles and funny birds.
Edda\n\nEdda is a very old book of stories. It tells about Viking gods and heroes from long ago. The stories were written down in a cold land called Iceland. People read it today to learn what Vikings believed. One story in it is about a strong god named Thor.
Edge\n\nAn edge is the sharp side of something. It is the part where two sides meet. You can find it on a table, a book, or a piece of paper. Sometimes it can cut you if you touch it, so you must be careful. A knife has a very sharp edge that helps it cut food.
Edison\n\nEdison is a famous man who made many new things. He lived a long time ago. He is best known for making the light bulb, which gives us light in our homes. He also made a machine that can record and play back sounds. Many people call him a great inventor because he never gave up trying.
Education\n\nEducation is learning new things. It happens when a teacher shows you how to do something, like reading or counting. You can find it at school, at home, or in a library. It helps you know more about the world. For example, when you learn to write your name, that is education.
Eel\n\nAn eel is a fish with a long, thin body like a snake. It has smooth skin and tiny scales you can hardly see. Most eels live at the bottom of the ocean, hiding in holes or sand. It hunts small fish and other sea animals for food. Some eels swim into rivers and lakes, so people can find it in fresh water too. A young eel is flat and see-through, and it looks very different from a grown-up eel.
Egg\n\nAn egg is a round or oval thing that a bird, a fish, or a bug makes. It has a hard or soft shell on the outside. Inside, a baby animal can grow until it is ready to come out. Many eggs are white or brown, but some are blue or green. People eat eggs from chickens for breakfast. You can cook an egg in a pan or boil it in water. A baby bird pecks the shell from inside when it is time to hatch.
Egypt\n\nEgypt is a big country in Africa. It has hot, sandy deserts and a long, long river called the Nile. Most people live near the river or the sea. Long ago, kings called pharaohs ruled Egypt. They built giant stone triangles called pyramids. You can still see them today. Many people visit Egypt to look at the pyramids and the big stone lion called the Sphinx.
Egyptian\n\nEgyptian means something from Egypt, a country far away with lots of sand and a big river. It can be a person who lives there, or things they make. Long ago, Egyptians built giant stone triangles called pyramids. They also wrote with little pictures. Today, people in Egypt speak a different language and live in busy cities.
Egyptian language\n\nThe Egyptian language is a very old way of talking and writing. It was used long ago in a place called Egypt. People wrote it with little pictures called signs. Some of these signs were cut into big stones. Today, almost no one speaks it every day, but a few people still use it in church. A big stone with three kinds of writing helped people learn to read the old signs.
Eid al-Adha\n\nEid al-Adha is a happy day for Muslim people. It is a time to share food and think about a very old story. In the story, a man named Ibrahim wanted to show he loved God more than anything. God saw his love and saved his son. Today, Muslim families remember this by giving meat to people who do not have much food. They also go to a big prayer together, wear new clothes, and give gifts to children. It is a day full of love and sharing.
Eiffel\n\nEiffel is a very tall tower made of iron. It stands in a big city called Paris, far away across the ocean. It looks like a giant metal triangle with three floors you can visit. People climb up inside it to see the whole city from high above. At night, it lights up with many tiny golden lamps. Many families take pictures next to it when they go on a trip.
Eiffel Tower\n\nThe Eiffel Tower is a very tall tower made of metal. It stands in a big city called Paris. It looks like a long, pointy triangle with three floors you can visit. People built it a long time ago for a big party. At night, many tiny lights on it sparkle and shine. You can ride an elevator up to the top and see the whole city below. It is one of the most famous towers in the world.
Eight\n\nEight is a number. It comes after seven and before nine. If you have eight crayons, you can count them: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. It looks like two circles, one on top of the other. You can see it on a clock, on a birthday cake, or in a book.
Eighteen\n\nEighteen is a number. It comes after seventeen and before nineteen. You can count to it with your fingers and toes. It is how old a person is when they become a grown-up in many places. You might see the number eighteen on a birthday cake with candles.
Einstein\n\nEinstein was a very smart man who thought about big ideas. He had wild white hair and a kind face. He lived a long time ago and worked with numbers and light. He helped people understand how the world works. You might see a picture of him sticking out his tongue in a funny way.
Either\n\nEither is a word we use when we talk about two things. It means you can pick one or the other, but not both. For example, at snack time, you might hear, "You can have either an apple or a banana." It helps us show that there are two choices.
El Dorado\n\nEl Dorado is a made-up city of gold. It is a place from old stories. People said it was hidden in South America. Long ago, some men from Spain looked for it. They wanted to find all the gold. But no one ever found it. It is just a story.
El Salvador\n\nEl Salvador is a small country in the middle part of the Americas. It has green hills, big volcanoes, and a long beach next to the big ocean. Many people live in towns and cities there. They speak Spanish and eat warm flat bread called tortillas. In the rainy time, it rains every day. In the dry time, the sun shines bright. Farmers grow corn and coffee beans on the land. El Salvador is so small that some people call it the "Tom Thumb" of the Americas.
Elastic\n\nElastic is a word that tells us something can stretch and then go back to its old shape. It is like a rubber band. You can pull it long, and when you let go, it snaps back small. Many clothes have elastic in the waist so they stay up on your body. A hair tie is elastic too. It stretches to hold your hair and then goes back when you take it off.
Elasticity (physics)\n\nElasticity is when something can stretch and then snap back to its first shape. It is like a rubber band. You pull it long, and when you let go, it goes back to being small and round. A spring in a toy also has elasticity. You push it down, and it jumps back up. Some things do not have elasticity. If you pull a piece of clay, it stays long and does not go back. Elasticity helps things like balls bounce and hair ties hold hair tight.
Elbow\n\nAn elbow is the bendy part in the middle of your arm. It lets you move your arm up and down and side to side. You can feel it when you touch the pointy bone on the back of your arm. It helps you eat, draw, throw a ball, and hug someone. When you bump it on something hard, it can feel funny and tingly.
Election\n\nAn election is a way for people to pick a leader. It is like a big group choice. You see it in towns and countries when people vote. They mark a paper or push a button to say who they want. Then the person with the most votes wins. It helps make fair rules for everyone.
Electric\n\nElectric is a kind of power that makes things work. It is like a hidden helper that moves through wires. You can find it in your house, in the walls and in cords. It makes lights turn on, the TV show pictures, and the fridge stay cold. When you flip a switch, it flows and does its job. A toy that needs batteries uses a tiny bit of it too.
Electric Battery\n\nAn electric battery is a small box that holds power inside. It can be round like a coin or long like a finger. You find it in toys, clocks, and remote controls. It makes things turn on and move without a cord. For example, a toy car uses a battery to zoom across the floor.
Electric charge\n\nElectric charge is a tiny thing that makes stuff pull or push. It lives inside every little piece of the world, like a secret power. You cannot see it, but you can feel it sometimes. When you rub a balloon on your hair, it picks up charge. Then the balloon can stick to the wall or make your hair stand up. That is because the charge makes things pull or push without touching. Sometimes you walk on a rug and touch a door, and you feel a tiny zap. That is charge jumping from you to the door. It is like a tiny, quick spark.
Electric current\n\nElectric current is a flow of tiny bits called charge. It moves through wires like water moves through a pipe. You can find it in the wires inside your house, in a battery that makes a toy light up, and in a big flash of lightning in the sky. It helps turn on lights, make fans spin, and power the TV. When you flip a switch, it flows and the room gets bright.
Electric eel\n\nAn electric eel is a long fish that lives in muddy rivers. It is not a real eel, but a kind of knifefish. It can make a strong zap, like a tiny bolt of lightning. It uses the zap to catch food and to stay safe from other animals. It lives in warm, slow rivers far away in South America. It must come up to the top of the water to breathe air. People almost never keep it as a pet because of its zap.
Electric field\n\nAn electric field is a special space around a thing that has electricity. It is like an invisible bubble that pushes or pulls on other electric things. You cannot see it, but it is there. When you rub a balloon on your hair, the balloon gets an electric field. It can make your hair stand up or stick to the wall. That is the field pulling on your hair.
Electric guitar\n\nAn electric guitar is a tool for making music. It has a long neck and a big round body. It uses six strings that you push down with your fingers. When you hit the strings, a small part called a pickup catches the sound and sends it through a wire to a loud box called an amp. The amp makes the sound big and loud. You can turn knobs on it to change how the sound feels. Many people play it in rock bands. You might see one on TV when a band plays a song.
Electric Light\n\nAn electric light is a thing that makes bright light when you turn it on. It has a glass bulb and a thin wire inside. You find it in houses, schools, and on streets. It helps people see when it is dark outside. A lamp on your desk is one kind of electric light.
Electric motor\n\nAn electric motor is a machine that makes things spin or move. It uses a hidden force called magnetism. Inside it has a part that can turn around and around. You find it in many things at home, like a fan, a washing machine, a fridge, and a vacuum cleaner. When you turn on a fan, the motor inside spins the blades fast to make wind. A long time ago, a man named Michael Faraday built the very first one with a nail, a wire, and a battery.
Electric power distribution\n\nElectric power distribution is how electricity gets to your house. It uses wires on tall poles or under the ground. Big metal boxes called transformers make the power safe to use. The power starts at a big station far away and travels through the wires. When you turn on a light, the power comes through these wires to make it shine.
Electric ray\n\nAn electric ray is a flat fish that lives in the sea. It has a round body and a long tail. It hides under the sand on the ocean floor. It can make a small zap of power, like a tiny shock. It uses this zap to catch food and to stay safe. Some people call it a torpedo ray.
Electrical engineering\n\nElectrical engineering is a job where people work with electricity. They think of new ways to use it to help us every day. They make things like lights, fans, and robots that can move on their own. They also fix broken wires and machines so they work again. You can find their work at home, in schools, and on the street. For example, the lights in your room and the TV you watch were made with help from electrical engineers.
Electrical generator\n\nAn electrical generator is a machine that makes power for lights and toys. It has wires inside that spin around very fast. When the wires spin, they make a kind of power called electricity. Some generators are small and you can turn them with your hand. Big ones sit in big buildings and use wind or water to spin. The power it makes can light up a room or make a toy move.
Electrical grid\n\nAn electrical grid is a big web of wires that brings power to your house. It starts at a power plant where electricity is made. Then it travels on tall towers and poles across long roads and fields. The wires go to a small box near your home and then into the walls. When you turn on a light or the TV, it sends the power to make it work. It works all day and night so we can have light, heat, and fun.
Electricity\n\nElectricity is a kind of power that moves through wires. It is like a hidden helper that makes things work. You cannot see it, but it is inside the walls of your house. It turns on lights so you can see at night. It makes the TV show your favorite shows. It keeps the fridge cold so food stays fresh. When you flip a switch, it flows to a lamp and the room gets bright. A battery has a little bit of it inside to make toys move. It can be very strong, so never touch a plug with wet hands.
Electricity generation\n\nElectricity generation is the way people make power. It is the force that turns on lights, runs fridges, and makes toys move. Most of it comes from big machines that spin very fast. These machines burn things like black rocks or gas to turn. Some use wind or falling water to spin. A different way uses flat shiny panels that catch sunlight and turn it right into power. You can see these panels on some house roofs. The power then travels on long wires to your home. When you flip a switch, the light goes on because of this power.
Electromagnet\n\nAn electromagnet is a special kind of magnet that works only when electricity flows through it. It is made of a wire wrapped many times around a piece of metal, like an iron nail. You can find it inside many things at home, such as a doorbell or a toy motor. When you turn on the electricity, it becomes a magnet and can pick up small metal things like paper clips. When you turn off the electricity, it stops being a magnet and lets go. It is different from a fridge magnet, which always sticks.
Electromagnetic\n\nElectromagnetic is a big word for a kind of push and pull that you cannot see. It is like a hidden force that can move things without touching them. You can find it in magnets that stick to the fridge. It also makes lights turn on and helps your TV show pictures. A good example is when you rub a balloon on your hair and it sticks to the wall.
Electromagnetism\n\nElectromagnetism is a force that pushes and pulls tiny bits called charges. It has two parts: an electric part and a magnetic part. You can see it when you rub a balloon on your hair and the balloon sticks to the wall. It also makes magnets stick to the fridge. It is all around us, even though we cannot see it.
Electron\n\nAn electron is a tiny, tiny piece of stuff that is part of everything around us. It is so small you cannot see it, even with a big magnifying glass. It lives in atoms, which are like tiny building blocks for all things. It moves around the center of the atom, like a bee buzzing around a flower. When many electrons move together, they make electricity, which turns on lights and makes your TV work.
Electronic commerce\n\nElectronic commerce is buying and selling things using a computer or phone. It happens on the internet. You look at pictures of toys, books, or clothes on a screen. Then you click to pick what you want, and a grown-up pays with a card. Later, a box comes to your door with the thing inside. Many people shop this way because it is fast and easy.
Electronic dance music\n\nElectronic dance music is music made with computers and special machines. It has a strong beat that makes people want to move their bodies. You hear it at parties, clubs, and sometimes on the radio. A DJ plays it by mixing different sounds together. It can be fast and happy, or slow and dreamy. Some songs have singing, and some have only sounds. When you hear it, you might jump, spin, or wave your arms.
Electronic music\n\nElectronic music is music made with special machines. It uses computers and boxes with buttons to create sounds. You can hear it on the radio, in movies, or at a dance party. People make it by pressing keys or turning knobs, and the machine makes a beat or a melody. Sometimes it sounds like a robot singing or a funny beep-boop noise.
Electronics\n\nElectronics is a way to use tiny bits of power to make things work. It uses small parts that let power flow or stop it. You find it inside many things at home, like a TV or a toy that lights up. It helps a screen show pictures and a speaker make sound. When you press a button and a toy moves or sings, that is electronics at work.
Element\n\nAn element is a basic kind of stuff that everything is made of. It is like a tiny building block that you cannot break into smaller pieces. You can find elements all around you, like the air you breathe and the water you drink. Some elements are shiny metals, and some are invisible gases. For example, the shiny yellow metal called gold is an element, and the air you blow out is made of elements too.
Elephant\n\nAn elephant is the biggest animal that lives on land. It has a very long nose called a trunk and big, floppy ears. Its skin is thick and wrinkly, and it has big, strong legs. Some elephants have long, white teeth called tusks that stick out from the mouth. Elephants live in hot places like Africa and Asia. They walk in big family groups and talk to each other with low sounds we cannot hear. An elephant uses its trunk to pick up food, drink water, and give itself a shower. It eats grass, leaves, and branches. A baby elephant is called a calf and stays inside its mom for almost two years before it is born. You can see an elephant at the zoo or in a picture book.
Elevation\n\nElevation is how high a place is. It tells us if a place is up high or down low. We measure it from the top of the ocean, which is flat and still. Most land is higher than the ocean, so it has a plus number. A few dry places are lower than the ocean, so they have a minus number. A tall mountain has a big elevation. A flat beach has a small elevation.
Elevator\n\nAn elevator is a small room that moves up and down. It has walls, a floor, a ceiling, and doors that slide open and shut. You find it inside tall buildings, like stores or apartments. People step in, push a button, and it carries them to a different floor. It helps people who cannot use stairs, like someone in a wheelchair. When you ride in one, you feel a little push as it starts and stops.
Eleven\n\nEleven is the number after ten. It is one more than ten. You can see it on a clock, on a calendar, or when you count your toys. When you have ten blocks and add one more, you have eleven blocks. It is a number that comes before twelve.
Elijah\n\nElijah is a person from very old stories. He was a man who spoke for God. He wore a long coat and lived a long time ago. In one story, he asked God to send fire from the sky, and it came down. In another story, he helped a woman whose son was sick, and the boy got better. People remember him as a brave helper.
Elizabeth\n\nElizabeth is a name for a girl or a woman. It is a long name with three parts: E-liz-a-beth. Many people with this name are called Liz, Beth, or Eliza for short. You might know a friend, a teacher, or a storybook character named Elizabeth. Some queens in old times also had this name.
Ellipse\n\nAn ellipse is a shape that looks like a squashed circle. It is round but longer one way and shorter the other. You can see it in a mirror that is not round, or in a plate that is not a perfect circle. The path a planet takes around the sun is an ellipse. You can draw it by tying a string to two pins and pulling a pencil around them.
Elm\n\nAn elm is a tall tree with many green leaves. It has a thick brown trunk and branches that spread out wide. You can find it in parks, forests, and along streets in many places. Its leaves have little teeth along the edges and a pointy tip. In the fall, the leaves turn yellow or brown and fall to the ground. The tree makes small flat seeds that spin in the wind like tiny wings. It grows very slowly and can live for a long, long time.
Else\n\nElse is a word we use when we talk about another thing or a different choice. It means something that is not the first thing we said. You might hear it when someone says, "Do you want an apple or something else?" It helps us ask about more things or pick a new thing. When you play a game and one rule does not work, you can try something else.
Email\n\nAn email is a letter you send using a computer or a phone. It goes from one person to another person very fast, like magic. You write words on a screen and press a button to send it. It can have a picture or a file attached to it. People use it to say hello, share news, or ask a question. You need an email address, which has an @ sign in the middle.
Embarrassment\n\nEmbarrassment is a feeling you get when you think you did something silly in front of other people. It can make your face feel hot and turn red. Sometimes you might smile a little or want to hide your face. It happens when you trip and fall, or when someone says something nice about you and you don't know what to say. It is a normal feeling that everyone has sometimes.
Embroidery\n\nEmbroidery is a way to make cloth look pretty with colored thread. It uses a needle to sew little lines and shapes. You can find it on shirts, hats, or blankets. People use it to draw flowers, letters, or animals on fabric. Some grown-ups learn it in a class and then teach others. A grandma might stitch a name on a towel as a gift.
Embryo\n\nAn embryo is the very first stage of a baby animal or a new plant. It is so tiny you cannot see it without a special tool. It starts from one small cell that grows and splits into many cells. In people, it stays inside the mom's belly for about eight weeks before it gets a new name. After that, it grows bigger and looks more like a baby. All animals and plants begin as an embryo before they are born or pop out of a seed.
Emerald\n\nAn emerald is a shiny green stone. It is very pretty and people wear it on rings or necklaces. It comes from deep under the ground. People dig it up and cut it to make it sparkle. It is the color of fresh grass in spring. Some emeralds are light green and some are dark green. It is one of the most special stones in the world.
Emergency department\n\nAn emergency department is a special room in a hospital. It is the place where people go when they are very sick or hurt and need help right away. It has doctors and nurses who work all day and all night. They help people who come in a fast car with a loud siren, called an ambulance. Sometimes people call it an emergency room, or ER for short. You might see one on a TV show where doctors run to help someone who just got hurt.
Emergency medical services\n\nEmergency medical services are helpers who come fast when someone is very sick or hurt. They ride in a big van called an ambulance. It has a loud siren and bright lights so cars move out of the way. Inside, they have beds and tools to help people breathe and stop bleeding. They take care of you right where you are and then bring you to a hospital if you need more help. You might see an ambulance on the street when you hear a loud wee-woo sound.
Emotion\n\nAn emotion is a feeling inside you. It can be happy, sad, angry, or scared. You feel it in your body, like a smile when you are happy or tears when you are sad. All people have emotions, and so do animals like dogs and cats. A dog wags its tail when it is happy to see you. Emotions help you know what you need, like a hug when you are sad.
Empathy\n\nEmpathy is a feeling that helps you know how another person feels inside. It is like putting your heart next to someone else's heart. When a friend is sad, you feel a little sad too. When a friend is happy, you feel happy with them. It helps you be kind and share. You can show it by giving a hug or saying a soft word. It makes people feel safe and loved.
Emperor\n\nAn emperor is a person who is the boss of a very big land. He wears a shiny crown and sits on a big chair called a throne. Long ago, many countries had an emperor. He tells people what the rules are. You can see an emperor in a storybook or a movie about old times.
Empire\n\nAn empire is a very big group of lands and people all ruled by one leader. It is like a giant kingdom that has many smaller parts. Long ago, empires grew by taking over faraway places. Some empires moved across the land with horses and soldiers. Other empires used big ships to sail across the sea and find new lands. You might see pictures of old empires in storybooks about kings, queens, and brave explorers.
Empire State Building\n\nThe Empire State Building is a very tall building in New York City. It has 102 floors and many windows. People go inside and ride an elevator way up high. From the top, they can see the whole city. At night, it lights up with pretty colors. It is one of the most famous buildings in the world.
Empty\n\nEmpty means there is nothing inside. A cup with no water is empty. A room with no people is empty. When you eat all your food, your plate is empty. It is the opposite of full.
Emu\n\nAn emu is a very big bird that cannot fly. It has a long neck, long legs, and soft brown feathers. It lives in Australia, in open places with grass and trees. It runs very fast on its strong legs to find food like seeds, flowers, and bugs. A daddy emu sits on the eggs to keep them warm until the babies hatch. The babies have stripes on their feathers to hide in the grass.
Enceladus\n\nEnceladus is a giant from very old Greek stories. He is big and strong, much taller than any person. In the stories, he lives under a mountain on an island. When he moves, the ground shakes and the mountain makes loud noises. Some people say that is why we have earthquakes and volcanoes. He is one of many giants in those old tales.
Encryption\n\nEncryption is a way to hide a message so only the right person can read it. It is like a secret code. You change the words into a jumble of letters that look like nonsense. Only someone with a special key, like a password, can turn the jumble back into the real words. When you send a note to a friend, you can use a simple code. For example, you might change each letter to the next one in the alphabet. Then "HELLO" becomes "IFMMP". Your friend knows the trick and can change it back. On computers, encryption keeps your secrets safe when you play games or send messages.
Encyclopedia\n\nAn encyclopedia is a big book or a website full of facts. It has many pages about different things, like animals, stars, or how cars work. You can find it at a library or on a computer at home. People use it to learn new things or look up answers. For example, if you want to know why the sky is blue, you can look in an encyclopedia.
End\n\nAn end is the last part of something. It is where a thing stops. You find it at the finish of a book, a movie, or a line. When you reach it, there is no more after that. For example, the end of a race is when you cross the finish line.
Endangered species\n\nAn endangered species is a kind of animal or plant that may soon be gone forever. It has very few of its kind left in the world. You can find some of them in special parks or safe places that people made to help them. People make rules to keep it safe, like no hunting and no breaking its home. A big cat called a tiger is one animal that is endangered.
Energy\n\nEnergy is the power that makes things move, light up, or get warm. It is like an invisible helper that is everywhere. You can see it when the sun shines, when a ball rolls, or when a light turns on. It can change from one kind to another, like when you eat food and then run and play. It never goes away; it just moves or changes shape.
Engine\n\nAn engine is a machine that makes things move. It takes energy and turns it into motion. You can find it inside a car, a train, a boat, or a plane. It helps the vehicle go from one place to another. Some engines burn fuel like gas to make power. Others use electricity from a battery. A toy car with a battery has a tiny engine inside it.
Engineer\n\nAn engineer is a person who builds and fixes things. She uses tools and thinks of new ideas. You can find her at a building site, a bridge, or a factory. She makes cars, roads, and tall towers. When a toy breaks, an engineer can help put it back together.
Engineering\n\nEngineering is using science and math to make new things. People who do this job are called engineers. They learn how to build and fix things at a big school. They work with many other people to make big things like bridges, cars, and computers. Some engineers make tall buildings, and some make toys that move. They think hard to solve problems and help everyone.
England\n\nEngland is a country with many people. It is part of a bigger group called the United Kingdom. The flag of England is white with a red cross. The biggest city is London, and many people live there. England has green hills, old castles, and a long river called the Thames. A long time ago, kings and queens lived in big stone houses. Today, people in England speak English, just like you and me.
English\n\nEnglish is a way people talk and write. It uses letters like A, B, and C to make words. Many people in the world speak English. You can hear it on TV, in songs, and in stories. When you say "hello" or "thank you," that is English. It helps people from different places talk to each other.
English Channel\n\nThe English Channel is a big stretch of water. It sits between the country of Great Britain and the rest of Europe. On a clear day, you can see from one side to the other at its thinnest part. People cross it on big boats called ferries. They can also ride a train that goes under the water in a long tunnel. Some strong swimmers have crossed it by swimming for many hours. In France, people call it by a different name.
English language\n\nEnglish is a way people talk and write. It started long ago in a country called England. Now many people all over the world use it. You can hear it in songs, see it in books, and watch it in movies. When you say "hello" or "thank you," you are using English. It has 26 letters, like A, B, C, and so on. Some words sound the same but look different, like "two" and "too." People in America, England, and many other places speak it every day.
English literature\n\nEnglish literature is stories, poems, and plays written in the English language. It can be a book you hold in your hands or words someone reads out loud. You find it in libraries, schools, and at home on a shelf. People read it for fun, to learn new things, or to hear a good tale. A bedtime story your mom or dad reads to you is a small piece of English literature.
Engraving\n\nEngraving is a way to cut a picture or words into a hard, flat thing. It uses a sharp tool to scratch lines into metal, wood, or stone. You can find it on pretty jewelry, shiny cups, or the metal plates that print money. People use it to make special pictures on paper or to decorate things like rings and watches. The lines it makes are smooth and stay there for a very long time.
Enjoy\n\nEnjoy means you feel happy when you do something. It is like a warm, smiley feeling inside. You can enjoy eating a yummy snack, playing with a toy, or listening to a story. When you enjoy something, you want to do it again and again. It makes your heart feel light and your face show a big grin.
Enki\n\nEnki is a very old god from long-ago stories. He was the god of water and knowing things. People said he made two big rivers flow. He was also linked to a bright star in the sky and a picture of a man pouring water. Sometimes he was shown as a goat-fish, which has a goat head and a fish tail. Today, we see him in star signs: the water pourer and the goat-fish.
Enlightenment\n\nEnlightenment is a big word for a time when people learned to think in new ways. It happened long ago in places like Europe. People started to ask many questions about the world. They used their own minds to find answers, not just old books. This helped them make new tools and share big ideas. It was like a bright light turning on in a dark room.
Enough\n\nEnough means you have all you need. It is when your tummy is full after a meal, or when you have just the right number of blocks to finish your tower. You do not need more and you do not have too little. When you feel happy and not wanting, that is enough.
Entertainment\n\nEntertainment is something fun that makes you happy. It can be a game, a show, a song, or a story. You find it on TV, at a park, or in a book. It helps you laugh, smile, and forget about sad things. A cartoon you watch is one kind of entertainment.
Envelope\n\nAn envelope is a flat paper pocket. It has a flap that you can fold down and stick shut. You put a letter or a card inside it. Then you write a name and address on the front and put a stamp in the corner. The mail carrier takes it to the person you want to reach. You might see an envelope when you get a birthday card in the mail.
Environmentalism\n\nEnvironmentalism is caring for the world around us. It means keeping the air, water, and land clean and safe. People who care about this are called environmentalists. They do things like putting paper and cans in special bins to use again. They also try to use less water and turn off lights to save power. Some of them help plant trees and pick up trash in parks. They want to make sure the Earth stays a happy home for all living things.
Epic poetry\n\nEpic poetry is a very long story told like a song. It has brave people who go on big trips and do hard things. Long ago, people told these stories out loud before books were made. One old story is about a strong man named Beowulf who fights a monster. Today, some writers still make new epic poems.
Epidemic\n\nAn epidemic is a sickness that spreads to many people in a big place. It moves from one person to another very fast. Doctors work hard to stop it with medicine and shots. When it spreads to many countries, it is called a pandemic. Washing hands and staying home can help keep people safe.
Epilepsy\n\nEpilepsy is a problem in the brain. It makes a person shake or move in a way they cannot control. This shaking is called a seizure. A seizure can be short or long. Some people take special medicine to help stop the seizures. A doctor can help find the best way to care for a person with epilepsy.
Episode\n\nAn episode is one part of a longer story. It is like a small piece of a big puzzle. You can watch an episode on TV or a tablet. Each episode tells a little part of the story, and when you watch many episodes, you learn the whole story. For example, your favorite cartoon has many episodes, and each one is a new adventure.
Epistemology\n\nEpistemology is a big word for thinking about how we know things. It asks questions like: how do you know the sky is blue? You see it with your eyes. How do you know a lemon is sour? You taste it. It is the study of what we know and how we learn. People use it when they ask if something is true or not.
Equal\n\nEqual means two things are the same in some way. It can be about size, like when two blocks are just as tall. It can be about number, like when you and a friend each have three cookies. In a game, equal turns mean everyone gets the same chance to play. When you share a snack, you try to make the pieces equal so it is fair.
Equality\n\nEquality means everyone gets the same fair chance. It is like sharing a big cookie so each friend gets a piece just the same size. At school, it means all kids can play together and learn together. At home, it means brothers and sisters take turns with toys. When people are equal, no one is left out or treated better just because of how they look or where they come from.
Equation\n\nAn equation is a math sentence. It has numbers and a sign that looks like two lines on top of each other. That sign means both sides are the same. You can see it in a school book or on a board. It helps you know how much something is. For example, 2 plus 3 equals 5 is an equation.
Equator\n\nThe equator is an imaginary line around the middle of the Earth. It is not a real line you can see, but it helps us on maps. It splits the Earth into a top half and a bottom half. Places near it are very hot and wet all year. They do not have cold winters like other places. You can find it on a globe as the line that goes around the fattest part.
Equatorial Guinea\n\nEquatorial Guinea is a small country in Africa. It has land on the big part of Africa and also on islands. One big island is called Bioko, and the main city is there. Many people speak Spanish because long ago Spain was in charge. It is near the ocean, so you can see water and boats. The land has green trees and hot weather.
Equestrianism\n\nEquestrianism is a sport where people ride horses. It has many different games and ways to ride. Some riders jump over tall fences while a clock ticks. Others make the horse dance in soft sand with no jumps at all. You can see it at big shows or on a farm. A child might ride a pony at a fair or watch a horse race on TV.
Equilibrium\n\nEquilibrium is when things are balanced and stay the same. It is like a seesaw that does not tip up or down. You can find it in a glass of water that is not moving. It also happens when you mix colors and they stop changing. A toy car sitting still on a flat floor is in equilibrium.
Equinox\n\nAn equinox is a special day that happens two times every year. On this day, the sun shines straight over the middle of the Earth. It makes day and night almost the same length. One equinox comes in spring, when flowers start to grow. The other comes in fall, when leaves turn red and yellow. Long ago, people had happy parties on these days.
Era\n\nAn era is a long, long stretch of time. It is like a big chapter in a storybook about the world. People use it to talk about times when things were very different from today. For example, when dinosaurs walked the Earth, that was a different era. When your grandparents were little, that was another era. An era can last for many, many years.
Erase\n\nErase means to make something go away. When you use a pencil, you can rub the marks off with a rubber eraser. It makes the paper clean again. You can also erase words on a whiteboard with a cloth. Sometimes people erase a drawing to start over. It helps fix mistakes.
Eraser\n\nAn eraser is a small soft thing that takes away pencil marks. It is often pink or white and feels a little bit like rubber. You can find it on the end of a pencil or as a block in a pencil box. When you make a mistake with a pencil, you rub it over the mark and the mark goes away. After you use it, little bits of it fall off, so you need to brush them away.
Eris (dwarf planet)\n\nEris is a big ball of ice and rock far away in space. It is round like a ball and very cold. It lives past all the big planets, way out in the dark. It moves around the sun, but it takes a very long time—more than 500 years. It has one small moon that goes around it. You cannot see it from your backyard because it is too far. Scientists use big telescopes to look at it.
Eritrea\n\nEritrea is a country in Africa. It is next to the Red Sea, a big body of water. It has neighbors called Sudan, Ethiopia, and Djibouti. The land is not very big. Many people there speak a language called Tigrinya. The capital city is Asmara, where many people live. Long ago, different countries ruled the land. Now it is its own country. People from Eritrea are called Eritreans. They have many different groups with their own ways and languages. Some people grow food or take care of animals. The weather is often hot and dry.
Erosion\n\nErosion is when wind, water, or ice slowly wears away rocks and dirt. It happens outside on the ground. Rain can wash soil down a hill. Wind can blow sand into big piles. A river can cut a deep path in the land over many years. This is how canyons are made. It can also make the ground less good for growing food.
Erupt\n\nErupt means to burst out suddenly. It is like when a volcano throws out hot, melted rock and ash. You can see it in pictures of a mountain with red and orange stuff flying up. It can also mean a loud, sudden noise, like when a crowd cheers all at once.
Especially\n\nEspecially means more than other things. You use it when one thing is the most important. If you say, "I like all fruits, especially apples," it means apples are your favorite. You can also say, "Be careful, especially near the stove," to show the stove is the most dangerous part. It helps people know what to pay the most attention to.
Espionage\n\nEspionage is when someone tries to find out secrets. It is like hiding and watching to learn things that are not for everyone to know. A person who does this is called a spy. A spy might look at papers, listen to talks, or take pictures without asking. In a war, it is against the rules to do this. Sometimes a spy works for one side, and sometimes they work for two sides at once.
Essay\n\nAn essay is a piece of writing that shares what a person thinks. It is made of words on paper or a screen. You find it in school, in books, or on the computer. A student writes it to tell ideas about one big topic. For example, a child might write about their favorite animal and why they love it.
Estonia\n\nEstonia is a small country in Europe. It sits next to the Baltic Sea. Its land has many trees, lakes, and little islands. The biggest city is Tallinn. People there speak a language called Estonian. They sing and dance at big song parties. In winter, the ground gets cold and white with snow. Many birds live there, like storks and eagles. A long time ago, it was part of a bigger country, but now it is free and has its own flag.
Estuary\n\nAn estuary is a place where a river meets the big sea. It has water that is a little salty and a little fresh. The river gets wide and slow there. You can see tall grass, small crabs, and many birds. It is a safe home for baby fish before they swim to the deep ocean.
Ethics\n\nEthics is about what is good and what is bad. It helps people think about the right way to act. When you share your toys, that is good. When you push a friend, that is bad. Ethics is like a set of rules for being kind and fair. It is used in many places, like at home, at school, and in the whole world.
Ethiopia\n\nEthiopia is a big country in Africa. It has tall mountains, green hills, and a long history. Many people live there, and they speak different languages. A long time ago, it was called Abyssinia. Today, you can find old stone churches and busy markets in its cities. Children in Ethiopia play games and help their families, just like you do.
Ethnicity\n\nEthnicity is a big word for the group of people your family comes from. It can mean sharing the same language, food, or stories from long ago. Some people have light skin, some have dark skin, and that can be part of ethnicity too. You might see different ethnicities at your school or in your neighborhood. Everyone's ethnicity is special, like a piece of a big, colorful puzzle.
Etiquette\n\nEtiquette is a set of rules about how to be nice and polite. It tells you what to do when you eat, talk, or play with others. You learn it at home, at school, and from watching grown-ups. For example, saying "please" and "thank you" is good etiquette. It can be different in different places, but it always helps people get along.
Etymology\n\nEtymology is the study of where words come from. It looks at how words change over time and what other languages they came from. You can find etymology in big books called dictionaries. It helps us understand why words sound the way they do. For example, the word "etymology" itself comes from old Greek words that mean "true word."
Eucalyptus\n\nEucalyptus is a kind of tree. It has long, thin leaves that smell strong and fresh. Most of these trees grow in Australia, where it is warm. The bark can be smooth or rough, and it often falls off in strips. People use the leaves to make oil that helps with coughs and colds. Some animals, like koalas, eat the leaves because they can handle the strong taste. The tree grows very tall, and its wood is used to build things.
Eukaryote\n\nA eukaryote is a tiny living thing made of small parts called cells. It has a special bag inside the cell that holds its instructions. You can find eukaryotes all around you—plants, animals, and mushrooms are all eukaryotes. It can be just one cell, like the green stuff on a pond, or many cells, like a dog or a tree. When you look at a leaf or a bug, you are looking at a eukaryote.
Euphrates\n\nThe Euphrates is a very long river. It flows through hot, dry lands in a place called the Middle East. Long ago, people used its water to grow food and build big cities. Today, big walls called dams hold back some of the water. It joins another river called the Tigris, and together they go into a big sea.
Eurasia\n\nEurasia is a very big piece of land. It is made of two parts: Europe and Asia. It has water all around it. The Atlantic Ocean is on one side, and the Pacific Ocean is on the other. It is the biggest piece of land on Earth. Many people live there, and it has many countries.
Eurasian eagle-owl\n\nThe Eurasian eagle-owl is a very big bird that flies at night. It has big round eyes, a hooked beak, and two pointy tufts on its head that look like ears. It lives in rocky places, near woods and water, in a big part of the world called Eurasia. It hunts small animals when it is dark outside. It makes a deep hooting sound that you can hear far away.
Eurasian magpie\n\nA Eurasian magpie is a black and white bird. It has a long tail and shiny dark feathers that can look blue or green in the sun. It lives in many places like Europe and Asia. It builds a big round nest high up in a tree. It eats small animals, eggs, and bits of food people leave behind. You might see it hopping on the grass in a park.
Eurasian Steppe\n\nThe Eurasian Steppe is a very big, flat land with lots of grass. It has no trees, just wide open fields. You can find it far away in places like Russia and China. Long ago, people rode horses across it to travel from one side of the world to the other. It was like a big road made of grass. Many different groups of people lived there and moved around with their animals.
Euro\n\nEuro is the money that many countries in Europe use. It comes as paper bills and round coins. You can see it in shops when people buy food or toys. One euro can be split into 100 tiny parts called cents. The bills have different colors and pictures of old buildings. The coins have one side that is the same everywhere, and the other side shows a picture from the country that made it. If you visit France or Spain, you can use the same euro coins and bills.
Europa (moon)\n\nEuropa is a big moon that goes around the planet Jupiter. It is a little smaller than our own Moon. Its outside is made of ice and is very flat and smooth. It has long lines and cracks on top. Scientists think there is a big ocean of water hiding under the ice. The water stays warm because Jupiter pulls on it. A man named Simon Marius found it a long time ago. He gave it the name Europa, after a girl from an old story.
Europe\n\nEurope is a big piece of land with many countries. It has water on three sides: a big ocean to the west, a cold ocean to the north, and a warm sea to the south. Many people live there, and they speak different languages. You can see old castles, tall mountains, and busy cities. Some children in Europe eat bread and cheese for breakfast.
European badger\n\nA European badger is a furry animal that digs tunnels under the ground. It has a white face with two wide black stripes over its eyes. It lives in the woods and fields across Europe. It sleeps in a cozy room inside its tunnel during the day and comes out at night to find food. It eats worms, bugs, fruit, and small plants. It keeps its home very clean and makes a special spot for its poop. Sometimes it lets other animals like rabbits share its tunnel. It is usually calm, but it can fight hard if it feels scared.
European honey bee\n\nA European honey bee is a small, busy insect that makes sweet honey. It has a fuzzy body with yellow and black stripes, six legs, and two see-through wings. It lives in a big group called a hive, which you can find in trees or in wooden boxes that people build. It flies from flower to flower to sip a sweet juice called nectar, which it turns into honey inside the hive. When one bee finds good flowers, it does a little wiggle dance to tell the other bees where to go. People keep these bees so they can collect the honey to eat on bread or in tea.
European robin\n\nA European robin is a small bird with a bright orange-red chest and face. It has brown wings and a white belly. You can find it in gardens, parks, and woods in many parts of Europe. It hops on the ground looking for bugs and worms to eat. It sings a pretty song, especially in the morning. In winter, it may come close to people digging in the dirt, hoping to find a snack.
Evaporation\n\nEvaporation is when water turns into air that you cannot see. It happens when water gets warm. You can see it when a puddle on the ground gets smaller on a sunny day. The water goes up into the sky and hides in the air. Wind and sun make it go faster. It is part of how rain comes back down later.
Even\n\nEven means things are the same size, amount, or number. When you share cookies with a friend and you both get the same number, that is even. It can also mean a number you can split into two equal groups, like 2, 4, or 6. You can see even when you cut a sandwich into two equal halves. It is the opposite of odd or lopsided.
Evening\n\nEvening is the time of day when the sun goes down and the sky gets dark. It comes after afternoon and before night. You can see the colors in the sky change to orange, pink, and purple. People eat dinner in the evening and get ready for bed. The moon and stars start to shine.
Event\n\nAn event is something that happens. It can be a big party, like a birthday with cake and balloons. It can also be a show, like a play or a concert. People plan events so friends and family can come together and have fun. Sometimes an event is outside, like a fair with games and rides. You might go to an event at school, like a sports day or a holiday show.
Ever\n\nEver is a word that means at any time. It is a small word you hear in questions and stories. You might ask, "Have you ever seen a rainbow?" That means, "Did you see a rainbow at any time in your life?" It can also mean always, like in "I will love you forever." That means for all time, without end. You hear it in songs and books when people talk about big feelings.
Everglades\n\nThe Everglades is a big, wet, grassy place in Florida. It is a slow river that looks like a wide, flat swamp. Many animals live there, like birds, fish, and big reptiles. People visit it to see the animals and the water. It is a park that keeps the land and animals safe.
Every\n\nEvery means all of something. It is a word we use when we talk about each one in a group. If you eat every cookie, there are no cookies left. If you hug every friend, you hug all of them. Every day means all the days, one after the other.
Everybody\n\nEverybody means all the people. It is a word you use when you talk about every single person in a group. When the teacher says "everybody, line up," she means all the boys and girls. At a birthday party, everybody gets a piece of cake. It is a happy word because it means no one is left out.
Everyone\n\nEveryone means all the people in the world. It is a word we use when we talk about every single person. When you look around, you see many faces, and everyone has a smile, a name, and a family. At school, everyone plays together at recess. At home, everyone sits at the table for dinner. It is a big word that holds all of us.
Everything\n\nEverything means all things. It is the whole world, every person, every animal, every toy, and every star in the sky. When you look around, you see a little bit of everything. It is a big word for all there is. You cannot hold everything in your hands because it is too big. But you can think about it when you look up at the night sky full of stars.
Everywhere\n\nEverywhere means all places. It is not one spot but the whole world around you. You can find air everywhere, because air is in your room, outside, and even up in the sky. Love is also everywhere—you feel it at home, at school, and with friends. When you look up, the sky is everywhere above you.
Evil\n\nEvil is when someone does something very bad on purpose. It is not a thing you can touch, but you can see it in mean actions. You might see it when a person hurts another person or breaks something just to be unkind. In stories, a witch or a monster is often evil. It is the opposite of good.
Evolution\n\nEvolution is how living things slowly change over a very long time. It is why there are so many different plants and animals today. You can see how it works by looking at old bones in rocks, called fossils. They show that animals from long ago look different from animals now. For example, a horse from long ago was as small as a fox and had many toes. Over time, it grew bigger and now has one big toe on each foot. This change happened bit by bit, over millions of years.
Exactly\n\nExactly means something is just right, with no mistake. When you put a puzzle piece in the right spot, it fits exactly. If you ask for three cookies and get three, that is exactly what you wanted. It is like a key that turns in a lock with no wiggle room.
Examination\n\nAn examination is a test that checks what you know or can do. It has questions you must answer. You see it at school when your teacher gives you a paper with questions. It helps the teacher see how much you learned. Sometimes it is not on paper but on a computer. A doctor also does an examination by looking at your body to see if you are sick. When you do well, you pass and feel proud.
Example\n\nAn example is one thing that shows what other things are like. It helps you understand something new. A teacher might say, "Here is an example of a circle," and point to a round clock. When you learn colors, a red apple is an example of red. It makes learning easy and fun.
Excite\n\nExcite is a big, happy feeling. It is when you jump up and down because something fun is about to happen. You might feel it on your birthday or when you see a big present. It makes your heart beat fast and your smile grow wide. You can also feel it when you go to the park or see a friend. It is a feeling that makes you want to shout, "Yay!"
Excited\n\nExcited is a feeling you get when something very good is about to happen. It makes your heart beat fast and your body feel jumpy. You might smile a lot, clap your hands, or even shout with joy. You can feel this way before a birthday party, when you see a new toy, or when you go to the park. It is a happy, bouncy feeling that makes you want to move and laugh.
Exciting\n\nExciting is a feeling you get when something big or fun is about to happen. It makes your heart beat a little faster and you might smile or jump up and down. You can feel it on your birthday, before a trip, or when you open a present. It is like a happy buzz inside you.
Excretion\n\nExcretion is how the body gets rid of waste it does not need. It happens in people and animals every day. When you go pee, that is excretion. When you breathe out, you push out a gas called carbon dioxide. Your skin also helps by making sweat. All these ways keep the body clean and healthy inside.
Executive (government)\n\nThe executive is a group of people who run a country every day. It is like the boss of the country's helpers. It does not make new rules—that job is for another group. It does not decide what rules mean—that is for judges. Instead, it makes sure rules are followed. The leader of the executive is often called the president or prime minister. This leader picks other helpers to take care of things like schools, hospitals, and talking to other countries. You can see the executive on TV when the leader gives a speech or visits a school.
Exercise\n\nExercise is when you move your body to stay strong and healthy. It can be running, jumping, or playing outside. You can do it at the park, in your yard, or even inside your house. It makes your heart beat faster and your muscles grow. When you play tag with friends, that is exercise.
Expensive\n\nExpensive means something costs a lot of money. A big toy or a shiny bike can be expensive. You need many coins or bills to buy it. Sometimes a thing is expensive because it is hard to make or very special. A small candy is not expensive, but a big cake can be. When Mom says a toy is too expensive, it means we cannot buy it today.
Experience\n\nExperience is something you learn by doing or seeing. It is not from a book, but from trying things yourself. When you ride a bike for the first time, you get experience. You might fall, but then you learn how to balance. Watching a friend do something also gives you a little experience. It helps you know what to do next time.
Experiment\n\nAn experiment is a way to test an idea. It is like a game where you try something to see what happens. You can do it in a lab with tools, or just in your head. It helps people learn if an idea is right or wrong. For example, if you think a toy car goes faster on a smooth floor than on a bumpy rug, you can try it and watch. That is an experiment.
Explain\n\nTo explain is to tell someone about something so they understand it better. It uses words, hands, or pictures to show what you mean. A teacher explains a new game to the class. A friend explains why they are sad. When you explain, you help someone see what you see.
Exploration\n\nExploration is when people go to new places to learn about them. It is like a big adventure where you find things you did not know before. Long ago, people sailed on big boats across the ocean to find new lands. They also walked on land with animals like camels to see what was far away. Today, people explore space in rockets to learn about stars and planets. You can explore too, like when you look under a rock in your yard and find a bug.
Explore\n\nExplore means to look around and find new things. When you explore, you walk and see what is there. You can explore a park, a big room, or your own backyard. It is like going on a small trip to learn about a place. Sometimes you find a pretty rock or a bug under a leaf. Exploring helps you know the world better.
Explorer\n\nAn explorer is a person who goes to new places to see what is there. He travels far away, sometimes over big water or tall mountains. He may find new lands, animals, or plants that no one saw before. He uses a map and a compass to know where he is going. A long time ago, explorers sailed on big boats to find new parts of the world. Today, some explorers go deep under the sea or high up into space.
Explosive\n\nAn explosive is a thing that can go BOOM very fast. It can break rocks or make a big loud noise. People use it to dig tunnels through mountains. Fireworks are a kind of explosive that make pretty colors in the sky. You should never touch an explosive because it can hurt you.
Exponentiation\n\nExponentiation is a way to multiply a number by itself many times. It uses a small number up high to show how many times. You can see it in math class on a board. It helps people count big numbers fast. For example, two with a small three means two times two times two, which is eight.
Expressionism\n\nExpressionism is a way of making art. It is not about showing things exactly as they look. Instead, the artist uses colors and shapes to share a big feeling. You can find it in paintings, plays, and music. The colors might be wild and the shapes might be bent. A famous painting called The Scream shows a person with a very scared face. That painting helps you feel the same fear.
Extended family\n\nAn extended family is a big group of people who are all part of one family. It has more than just a mom, a dad, and their kids. It also has aunts, uncles, and cousins. Sometimes a grandma or grandpa lives with them too. They all live together or very close by. They help each other every day, like sharing food and taking care of the little ones. When you visit your cousin's house and see your aunt and uncle there, that is part of an extended family.
Extinction\n\nExtinction is when a kind of animal or plant is gone forever. It means there are no more of them left anywhere on Earth. A long time ago, big dinosaurs lived here, but they are now extinct. Sometimes the place where they live changes too much, and they cannot find food or a safe home. People can also make animals extinct by hunting too many of them. The dodo bird is one animal that is extinct because people hunted it. When a kind of living thing is almost gone, we say it is endangered. We try to keep endangered animals safe so they do not become extinct.
Extra\n\nExtra means more than usual. It is the little bit you get after you already have enough. You might find an extra cookie in your lunch box, and that feels like a happy surprise. Sometimes you have an extra crayon when a friend needs one, so you can share. Extra can also mean a little more time to play before bed.
Extrasolar planet\n\nAn extrasolar planet is a big round world that moves around a far-away star. It is not in our own star family. It can be made of rock or gas, and some are very hot while others are cold. You cannot see it with just your eyes, but big telescopes help people find it. Some of these worlds might have water, like a big warm ocean. One of them is called Kepler-69c, and it is a little bigger than our Earth.
Extraterrestrial life\n\nExtraterrestrial life is living things that are not from Earth. It is also called aliens. No one has found any yet, but some people think it might live far away on other planets. In stories and movies, it can look like little green people or strange creatures with big eyes. Scientists use big tools to listen for sounds from space, hoping to hear a sign of it.
Extraversion and introversion\n\nExtraversion and introversion are two ways people can be. Some people like to be with others a lot. They feel happy and full of energy when they play with friends. Other people like to be alone more. They feel happy and full of energy when they play by themselves. It is not about being scared or shy. It is just how different people feel best. Everyone is a little bit of both, but some lean more one way.
Extremophile\n\nAn extremophile is a tiny living thing that likes very hard places. It can live where it is super hot, super cold, or very salty. Most other living things cannot stay alive there. You cannot see it with just your eyes because it is so small. Scientists find it deep in the ocean, in hot springs, or inside rocks. It helps us learn how life can be strong in strange spots.
Eye\n\nAn eye is a round part of your body that helps you see. It sits in a little hollow on your face, one on each side. The front has a clear cover and a dark circle in the middle. Light comes in through that circle, and the eye sends a message to your brain. Then your brain shows you a picture of what is in front of you. Some animals have eyes that work a little differently, but they all use them to see.
Eye examination\n\nAn eye examination is a check-up for your eyes. It is done by a special eye doctor. The doctor looks at your eyes with a bright light and asks you to read letters on a wall chart. It helps find out if you need glasses to see better. Sometimes the doctor puts drops in your eyes to make them feel a little funny, but it does not hurt. After the check-up, you may get a paper that tells you how strong your glasses should be.
Eyeglasses\n\nEyeglasses are a tool that helps people see better. They have two clear pieces called lenses that sit in front of the eyes. A frame holds the lenses on the face. The frame can be made of metal or plastic. You wear them on your nose and ears. Some eyeglasses have dark lenses to keep bright sun out of the eyes. Other eyeglasses keep things from hitting the eyes. Many people wear them to read or watch things clearly. You might see a friend or a teacher wearing them at school.
Eyelash\n\nAn eyelash is a tiny hair that grows on the edge of your eyelid. It is short and curved. You have many eyelashes on your top lid and your bottom lid. It helps keep dust and tiny bits out of your eye. When you blink, it moves like a little brush. Sometimes a loose one falls on your cheek, and you can make a wish and blow it away.
Fable\n\nA fable is a short story that teaches a lesson. It often has animals that talk and act like people. You can find fables in books or hear them told out loud. A fable helps you learn what is right and wrong. One famous fable is about a boy who cried wolf. He tricked people, and when a real wolf came, no one helped him.
Fabric\n\nFabric is a soft, flat thing made from many tiny threads. It can be smooth like a bed sheet or fuzzy like a towel. You find it on your bed, on your couch, and in your clothes. People use it to make shirts, pants, dresses, and blankets. When you wear a cozy sweater or wrap up in a warm blanket, that is fabric.
Face\n\nA face is the front part of your head. It has your eyes, nose, mouth, and ears. You use your eyes to see, your nose to smell, and your mouth to eat and talk. Your face also has cheeks that can turn pink when you are happy or hot. When you look in a mirror, you see your own face. Every face is a little different, and that is how we know who is who.
Fact\n\nA fact is something that is true. It is a real thing that you can check. You can find facts in books or by looking with your own eyes. For example, it is a fact that the sky is blue on a sunny day. A fact is not the same as a feeling or a guess.
Factor\n\nA factor is a part of something bigger. It is like a piece that helps make the whole thing. You can find factors in math, where numbers break into smaller numbers that multiply together. For example, 2 and 3 are factors of 6 because 2 times 3 makes 6. In life, a factor is a reason why something happens, like rain being a factor that makes flowers grow.
Factory\n\nA factory is a big building where people and machines make many things. It has tall smokestacks, loud noises, and long moving belts. You can find factories near cities or big roads. Inside, workers and machines put parts together to make cars, toys, clothes, and food. A long time ago, a man named Henry Ford made a special line where each person did one small job, and the car moved from one person to the next. This made building cars much faster. But factories can also make dirty smoke that hurts the air and water. Some factories are now so smart that machines do all the work, and no people are inside.
Fahrenheit\n\nFahrenheit is a way to tell how hot or cold something is. It uses numbers, like 32 for when water turns to ice and 212 for when water boils. People in the United States often use it to check the weather outside. It is less common in other parts of the world, where a different way called Celsius is used more.
Fair\n\nA fair is a happy place where people go to have fun. It has bright lights, music, and many rides that spin and go fast. You can find a fair in a big open field or a parking lot. At a fair, you can play games to win a toy, eat sweet treats like cotton candy, and ride a big wheel that goes high in the sky. Sometimes a fair has animals to pet or a show with clowns. A fair comes to town for a few days and then it moves away.
Fairly\n\nFairly means doing things in a way that is right and equal. When you share a cookie with a friend and both get the same size, you act fairly. It is the opposite of being mean or taking more than your share. In a game, everyone follows the same rules to play fairly. A teacher who listens to all children and does not pick favorites acts fairly.
Fairness\n\nFairness means everyone gets the same chance. It is when you share toys so each friend has a turn. You see it at school when the teacher gives every child one cookie. It is not about getting the same thing, but about what each person needs. When you play a game and follow the rules, that is fairness.
Fairy\n\nA fairy is a tiny, magic person with wings. It looks like a very small girl or woman and can fly in the air. You can find fairies in storybooks and make-believe tales. One fairy you might know is the Tooth Fairy. She comes at night when a child loses a tooth. She takes the tooth and leaves a small coin or a treat under the pillow. Some stories say fairies live in hidden places like woods or caves. They use magic to do kind or tricky things.
Fairy tale\n\nA fairy tale is a short made-up story. It often has magic, talking animals, and brave people like princes or princesses. You can find it in a book or hear it when someone reads out loud. It is told to make you feel happy, scared, or excited. Many children know stories like "Cinderella" or "The Three Little Pigs."
Faith\n\nFaith is when you believe in something even if you cannot see it or touch it. It is a feeling inside your heart. You can have faith in people, like trusting your mom will pick you up from school. Many people have faith in a higher power or God. It helps them feel safe and not alone.
Falcon\n\nA falcon is a strong bird that hunts other animals. It has pointy wings and a long tail. Its back is dark gray or brown, and its belly is white. It lives in many places around the world. It flies very fast and catches small birds in the air. Some people train it to help them hunt. Long ago, this was for food, but now it is a game.
Falkland Islands\n\nThe Falkland Islands are a group of islands far away in the big blue sea. They are near the bottom of the world, close to a place called South America. It has two big islands and many tiny ones. The land is rocky and windy, with hills and not many trees. People live there in a small town. They keep sheep and catch fish from the sea. Many penguins and birds also live on the islands. It is a quiet place with cold weather and lots of clouds.
Fall\n\nFall is a time of year when the air gets cool. It comes after summer and before winter. The leaves on trees turn red, yellow, and orange, then fall to the ground. You can find it outside in parks and yards. People wear sweaters and pick apples in fall. It is a good time to jump in big piles of leaves.
False\n\nFalse means something is not true. It is the opposite of true. When you say the sky is green, that is false because the sky is really blue. In a game, if you guess a number and it is wrong, your guess is false. A story that is made up and not real is also false.
Family\n\nA family is a group of people who love and take care of each other. It often has a mom, a dad, and children. Some families have only one parent. Other families have grandparents, aunts, uncles, and cousins all living together. They share a home, food, and happy times. A family makes you feel safe and warm.
Family name\n\nA family name is a name that people in the same family share. It is the last part of your full name. In many places, children get it from their dad. When a mom and dad get married, the mom often takes the dad's family name. For example, if your dad's family name is Kim, you might be called [Your Name] Kim. It helps people know which family you belong to.
Famine\n\nFamine is a time when many people do not have enough food. It happens in places where food is very hard to find. People feel hungry and weak, and they can get very sick. Sometimes it happens when rain does not fall and plants cannot grow. Other times it happens when there is a war. When there is a famine, kind people from far away may send food to help.
Famous\n\nFamous means many people know who you are. It is like when everyone in your class knows your name, but for the whole world. A famous person might be on TV, in a movie, or sing a song you hear on the radio. They can also be in a book or on a big sign. Sometimes people ask them for a picture or a name on paper.
Fan\n\nA fan is a thing that moves air to make you feel cool. It has blades that spin around very fast. You can find it in a house, a school, or a store on a hot day. People turn it on when they feel warm, and it blows a soft wind. Some fans sit on a table, and some hang from the ceiling.
Fan (person)\n\nA fan is a person who really likes something. It can be a sports team, a singer, a movie, or a book. A fan cheers for a team at a game or sings along at a music show. Sometimes fans meet in big groups to talk about what they love. A fan may wear a shirt with a team name or put up a poster of a star. It feels happy when it sees or hears the thing it likes.
Fandom\n\nFandom is a big group of people who all love the same thing. It can be about a book, a movie, a game, a sports team, or a famous person. People in a fandom like to talk about what they love, draw pictures, write stories, and sometimes dress up like the characters. You might see a fandom at a movie theater when many fans wear the same T-shirt and cheer together.
Fantasy\n\nFantasy is a kind of make-believe story. It has magic and things that cannot happen in real life. You might find it in a book, a movie, or a game. In it, people can fly, animals can talk, and a wand can make things appear. A story like Cinderella is a fantasy because a fairy helps her go to the ball.
Far\n\nFar means something is a long way away. It is the opposite of close. When you look at a mountain that is far, it looks very small. A far sound is quiet and hard to hear. You might walk far to get to the park, and your legs feel tired.
Faraway\n\nFaraway means something is a long, long way from where you are. It is not close, so you cannot touch it or see it well. A faraway place might be a mountain you see from your window, or a friend's house in another town. When you look at the sky at night, the stars are faraway. You can think of faraway as the opposite of near.
Farm\n\nA farm is a big piece of land where people grow food. It has fields for plants and barns for animals. Farmers work on it every day. They plant seeds, water them, and pick the food when it is ready. Some farms have cows, pigs, or chickens. The food from a farm goes to stores so we can buy it and eat it. You might see a farm when you ride in a car past big open fields.
Farmer\n\nA farmer is a person who grows food and takes care of animals. He works on a big piece of land called a farm. On the farm, he plants seeds in the dirt. The seeds grow into plants like corn, tomatoes, and apples. He also feeds animals like cows, chickens, and pigs. The cows give milk, and the chickens give eggs. When the food is ready, he picks it and sends it to stores. People buy the food to eat at home. You might see a farmer at a market selling fresh fruits and vegetables.
Faroe Islands\n\nThe Faroe Islands are a group of small islands in the big, cold ocean. They are far north, between other lands. It has green hills, tall cliffs, and many sheep. People live in small towns and fish in the sea. They also raise sheep and welcome visitors. The weather is often windy and foggy. Many birds fly over the islands and seals swim near the shore.
Fashion\n\nFashion is the way people dress and look. It is about the clothes, shoes, and hair we choose. In cold places, people wear warm coats and boots. In hot places, they wear light shirts and sandals. Fashion changes over time. Long ago, people wore big dresses and tall hats. Today, many people wear jeans and t-shirts. You can see fashion at home, at school, and on the street. When you pick your favorite shirt or put on a funny hat, you are using fashion too.
Fast\n\nFast means moving or happening very quickly. It is the opposite of slow. A cheetah is fast because it can run faster than a car on a small road. When you run as quick as you can, you are fast. A fast song has a quick beat that makes you want to dance. Some things are so fast you can hardly see them, like a hummingbird's wings.
Fast food\n\nFast food is food that is made very fast. You can get it at a shop and eat it right away. It often comes in a paper bag or a box. Some fast food is a burger with a meat patty and a bun. Other fast food is fried chicken or pizza. Many people like it because it tastes good and is quick. But if you eat too much, it can make your body feel bad. It is better to eat it only once in a while.
Fastener\n\nA fastener is a small tool that holds two things together. It can be a button, a zipper, a snap, or a clip. You find it on your clothes, your backpack, or your lunch box. It keeps things closed so they do not fall open. When you zip up your jacket, you use a fastener.
Fasting\n\nFasting is when a person chooses not to eat any food for a while. Sometimes they also do not drink water. People do it for different reasons. Some do it because their religion tells them to. Others do it to show they are upset about something, like a rule they think is wrong. Some people skip meals at certain times to help their body feel lighter. It is important to be safe and not go too long without food or water.
Fat\n\nFat is a part of many foods we eat. It can be solid like butter or liquid like oil. You find it in meat, milk, nuts, and fried snacks. It gives your body energy to run and play. It also helps keep you warm when it is cold outside. But eating too much fat can make your body feel heavy and tired. Some fats are better for you, like the kind in fish and avocados. Other fats, like the kind in many cookies and chips, are not so good. So it is smart to eat just a little bit of fat each day.
Father\n\nA father is a man who has a child. He is also called dad or daddy. He helps take care of his child by giving food, a home, and love. He plays with the child and keeps them safe. A father can be the man who helped make the baby, or a man who raises a child even if he did not make the baby. In many families, he works together with the mother to help the child grow happy and strong.
Fault (geology)\n\nA fault is a big crack in the hard ground under our feet. It is like a giant split in a rock. Sometimes the two sides of the crack slide past each other. When they move, the ground can shake. That shaking is called an earthquake. A fault can be very deep, and we cannot see most of it. But sometimes a fault makes a tall, steep hill or a cliff that we can see. People who study the ground look at faults to learn about earthquakes.
Favorite\n\nA favorite is something you like the most. It can be a toy, a color, a food, or a game. When you have many things, your favorite is the one that makes you happiest. You might pick a favorite book at bedtime or a favorite shirt to wear. Everyone has favorites, and they can be different for each person.
Favourite\n\nA favourite is something you like the most. It can be a toy, a color, a food, or a song. When you have many things, your favourite is the one that makes you happiest. You might have a favourite blanket that feels soft, or a favourite story you ask for again and again. Everyone has different favourites, and that is okay.
Fear\n\nFear is a big feeling you get when something seems scary. It makes your heart beat fast and your body feel tight. You might feel it when you see a big dog or when it is very dark. It tells you to be careful and stay safe. Sometimes it helps you run away from danger. But it can also stop you from trying new things, like saying hi to a new friend. Everyone feels fear sometimes, and that is okay.
Feather\n\nA feather is a soft thing that covers a bird. It has a stiff middle part and many tiny soft hairs on the sides. It grows on a bird’s body and wings. It keeps the bird warm and helps it fly. Some feathers are small and fluffy, like the ones on a baby chick. People use soft feathers inside pillows and blankets to make them cozy.
February\n\nFebruary is a month of the year. It is the second month after January. It has 28 days, but every four years it gets one extra day and has 29. It is a winter month in many places, so it can be cold and snowy. People celebrate Valentine's Day in February with hearts and cards.
Federated States of Micronesia\n\nThe Federated States of Micronesia is a country made of many small islands. It sits in the big blue ocean, far from big lands. People live on these islands in small towns. They fish in the sea and grow food like coconuts. The weather is warm and sunny all year. Long ago, people from far away came to these islands. Now the country is friends with a bigger country that helps keep it safe.
Federation\n\nA federation is a big group of smaller places that join together. Each smaller place can make its own rules for some things. But they all share one big boss for things that matter to everyone. The United States is one example. It has many states that work together but also make their own choices. Other places like Canada and Australia are federations too.
Fee\n\nA fee is money you pay to get something or to do something. It is like a small price. You might pay a fee to ride a bus or to go into a zoo. Sometimes you pay a fee to a person who helps you, like a doctor. It is not a toy or a thing you can hold—it is just the money part.
Feeble\n\nA feeble is a made-up word for something very weak. It is like a tiny baby bird that cannot fly yet. You might see a feeble little plant that needs water to stand up straight. It does not have much strength, so it can fall over easily. A soft whisper is a feeble sound because it is hard to hear.
Feed\n\nFeed means to give food to someone or something. You can feed a pet, like a dog or a cat, by putting food in its bowl. A mom or dad feeds a baby with a spoon or a bottle. On a farm, a farmer feeds the animals hay or grain. When you are hungry, someone feeds you a meal.
Feel\n\nA feel is something you have inside your heart or your head. It can be happy, sad, angry, or scared. You find it when something happens, like getting a hug or losing a toy. It tells you what you like and what you do not like. When you smile, that is a happy feel. When you cry, that is a sad feel.
Feeling\n\nA feeling is something you have inside your heart and head. It can be happy, sad, angry, or scared. You feel it when something good or bad happens. A smile shows a happy feeling. Tears show a sad feeling. Everyone has feelings every day.
Feet\n\nFeet are the parts at the end of your legs. They help you stand, walk, and run. Each foot has five toes, a heel, and a soft bottom. You put shoes and socks on them to keep them safe and warm. When you jump, your feet push you off the ground.
Felt\n\nFelt is a soft, thick cloth. It is made by pressing tiny threads together until they stick. You can find it in many colors at a craft store. People use it to make hats, warm rugs, and fun shapes for art. It feels fuzzy and does not have a criss-cross pattern like your jeans. You might have a felt puppet or a felt board at school.
Female\n\nFemale is one of the two kinds of bodies people and animals can have. A female body can grow a tiny egg inside. When the egg meets a seed from a male, a baby can start to grow. In people, a grown-up female is called a woman. She has a body that is a little different from a man. She has breasts that can make milk to feed a baby. She also has wider hips to help when a baby is born. Many animals have females too, like a mother dog or a mother cat.
Feminism\n\nFeminism is the idea that girls and boys should be treated the same. It says that women and men should have the same chances in life. A long time ago, women could not vote or have many jobs. People who believed in feminism worked hard to change that. Now, in many places, women can vote, work, and be leaders. Feminism also says that everyone should be free to be who they are. It is about being fair to all people, no matter if they are a girl or a boy.
Fence\n\nA fence is a kind of wall that stands around a place. It is often made of wood or metal. You can see it around a garden, a farm, or a house. It keeps animals inside or stops them from coming in. Some fences are short, and some are tall. A fence has posts that hold it up. It does not have a deep bottom like a big wall.
Fencing\n\nFencing is a sport where two people play with swords. It uses three kinds of swords: a light one, a heavy one, and a curved one. Players wear a white suit, a mask, and a glove to stay safe. They try to touch the other player with the sword to get a point. A judge watches to see who gets the touch first. You can see fencing at big sports games or in movies with knights.
Fennel\n\nFennel is a plant that people can eat. It has a round white part at the bottom, green stalks, and small yellow flowers. You can find it growing in warm places near the sea. People use the round part in salads and the tiny seeds to add a sweet taste to food. The seeds smell a little like licorice candy.
Fern\n\nA fern is a green plant with many soft, feathery leaves. It does not grow flowers or seeds. Instead, it makes tiny dust-like specks called spores under its leaves. It likes to live in cool, shady, wet places like forests or near streams. You may see a fern in a garden or in a pot inside a house. Its leaves unroll slowly as they grow, like a little green curl opening up.
Ferry\n\nA ferry is a big boat that carries people and cars across water. It moves back and forth between two places, like a floating bus. You can find it on rivers, lakes, and the sea. People use it to go to work, visit family, or go on a trip. Some ferries are small and some are very big, with space for many cars and trucks. You might see one if you live near the water or go on a boat ride.
Fertile\n\nFertile means something can grow new life. It is a word for soil, land, or a living thing. When soil is fertile, seeds can grow into strong plants. A fertile animal can have babies. A farmer likes fertile ground because it gives lots of food.
Fertilizer\n\nFertilizer is food for plants. It looks like tiny grains or powder, and people sprinkle it on the dirt. It helps grass, flowers, and vegetables grow tall and strong. Farmers put it on big fields, and you might see a bag of it at a garden store. When a plant gets fertilizer, its leaves turn bright green and it makes more flowers or fruit.
Festival\n\nA festival is a big, happy party where many people come together. It can happen outside in a park or on a street. People sing, dance, and eat yummy food at it. Sometimes there are bright lights and loud music. A festival can last one day or many days. You might see a parade with big floats and people in colorful clothes. It is a time to have fun and feel joy with others.
Fetch\n\nFetch is a game you play with a dog. You throw a ball or a stick, and the dog runs to get it. The dog picks it up with its mouth and brings it back to you. You can play fetch in a park or in a yard. It makes the dog happy and gives it good exercise.
Fever\n\nA fever is when your body gets too hot. It feels like your head and skin are warm. You might get it when you are sick. A grown-up can check it with a small tool that beeps. Rest and cool water help it go away.
Few\n\nFew means a small number of things. If you have three cookies and your friend has ten, you have few cookies. It is the opposite of many. When you see only a little bit of something, you can say there are few of them.
Fibre\n\nA fibre is a long, thin, bendy piece of stuff. It looks like a tiny hair or a piece of thread. You can find it in many places. Some come from plants, like the soft white fluff on a cotton ball. Some come from animals, like the wool on a sheep. People twist many fibres together to make string or rope. They also weave them to make cloth for shirts and pants. A sweater you wear in winter is made from fibres.
Fiction\n\nFiction is a made-up story. It comes from someone's imagination, not from real life. You can find it in books, on TV, or in movies. It has people in it called characters, and they do things that make a story. The story has a problem that the characters try to fix. A fairy tale is a kind of fiction you might know.
Fictional universe\n\nA fictional universe is a made-up world for stories. It is not real, but it feels real when you read a book or watch a movie. You can find it in books, TV shows, movies, and games. It has its own rules, like magic or talking animals, that are different from our world. For example, the world of Harry Potter is a fictional universe with wizards and a school called Hogwarts.
Field\n\nA field is a big open piece of land. It has lots of grass and sometimes flowers. You can find it in the countryside, away from tall buildings. Farmers use it to grow food like corn or wheat. Cows and sheep eat the grass there. You might see a field when you ride in a car past farms.
Field hockey\n\nField hockey is a game played on a big grassy field. It has two teams, and each team has 11 players. They use a stick shaped like a J to hit a small hard ball. The stick is made of wood and other strong stuff. At each end of the field there is a goal. Players try to hit the ball into the other team's goal to score a point. One player on each team stands in front of the goal to stop the ball. That player is called the goalkeeper. The game is played in four short parts with breaks in between. People play field hockey in many places around the world.
Field research\n\nField research is when people go outside to learn about things. It happens in real places like a forest, a park, or a busy street. A scientist might watch birds in a tree to see what they eat. Another person might talk to people at a market to learn what they like to buy. They write down what they see and hear. Later, they use those notes to understand how things work in the real world.
FIFA World Cup\n\nThe FIFA World Cup is a big soccer game that happens every four years. It is a time when the best soccer teams from many countries play against each other. People all over the world watch it on TV. The team that wins gets a shiny gold cup. Brazil has won it five times, more than any other country. The games take place in one country that is chosen before. Many teams try to get in, but only some make it to the final games. It is a very happy and loud event with lots of cheering.
Fifteen\n\nFifteen is a number. It comes after fourteen and before sixteen. You can count to it on your fingers and toes. If you have fifteen crayons, you have a big bunch to color with. It is also how old some big kids are.
Fig\n\nA fig is a soft, sweet fruit. It has thin skin and many tiny seeds inside. It grows on a tree in warm places. People eat it fresh or dried. Sometimes it is made into jam. A fig can be a tasty snack.
Fight\n\nA fight is when two people or animals push, hit, or yell at each other. It can happen with hands, feet, or loud words. You might see a fight on a playground when children are angry. It is not a nice way to solve a problem. It is better to use calm words and ask a grown-up for help.
Fighter aircraft\n\nA fighter aircraft is a small, fast plane that fights in the sky. It has a pointy nose and strong wings. People who fly it are called pilots. They use it to chase other planes and keep the sky safe. It can carry things that shoot, like small rockets and fast bullets. Some of them also help soldiers on the ground. It can turn very quickly to stay safe.
Figure\n\nA figure is a shape or form you can see. It can be a drawing of a person, an animal, or a thing. You might see it in a book, on a wall, or in a puzzle. Some figures are flat, like a circle or a square. Others are round and solid, like a ball or a block. When you play with blocks, you stack different figures to make a tower.
Figure skating\n\nFigure skating is a way of moving on ice with music. It is like dancing on ice. People who do it wear special shoes with a thin metal blade on the bottom. They glide, spin around very fast, and jump high in the air. Sometimes one person skates alone. Sometimes two people skate together and hold hands. You can see it on TV when the Winter Olympics are on. The skaters wear pretty clothes that sparkle.
Fiji\n\nFiji is a country made of many islands in the big blue ocean. It has over 300 islands, but only some have people living on them. The biggest island is called Viti Levu, and the main city is Suva. People in Fiji speak different languages, like Fijian and English. Many visitors come to Fiji to see the warm, clear water and the pretty fish. They can swim and look at the colorful rocks under the sea. Fiji is a sunny place with lots of trees and beaches.
Fill\n\nFill is a word that means to put something into an empty space. You can fill a cup with water or a box with toys. When you fill something, it is not empty anymore. It is full.
Film\n\nA film is a moving picture that tells a story. It is made of many tiny pictures shown very fast, one after the other. You can watch it on a big screen at a movie theater or on a TV at home. People in a film talk, sing, and do things, just like in a play. A film can make you laugh, feel happy, or sometimes a little scared. You might see a film about animals, superheroes, or a princess.
Filter\n\nA filter is a tool that takes out things you do not want. It can be a piece of paper, a small screen, or a special part inside a machine. You can find it in many places. In the kitchen, a coffee filter keeps the wet grounds out of your drink. In a fish tank, a filter cleans the water so the fish stay healthy. At the pool, a big filter pulls out leaves and dirt. Some filters work with sound or light, like the one in a radio that picks one song from many. A filter helps keep only the good stuff.
Fin\n\nA fin is a flat body part that helps an animal swim. It sticks out from the side or back of a fish. It looks like a thin fan or a small wing. A fish moves its fin to go left, right, up, or down in the water. You can see fins on a goldfish in a bowl or on a big shark in the ocean.
Final\n\nFinal is the very last part of something. It is the end, when nothing comes after. You see it at the end of a race, when the fastest runner crosses the line. In a game, the final score tells who won. At school, the final bell means it is time to go home.
Finally\n\nFinally means at the end, after waiting. It is a word we use when something happens last. You might hear it in a story when the hero wins after a long trip. At home, you wait for cookies to bake, and finally the timer rings. It feels good when something you want finally comes.
Finance\n\nFinance is about money. It is the way people think about saving money, spending money, and sharing money. When you put coins in a piggy bank, that is saving. When you buy a toy at the store, that is spending. Big places like banks keep money safe for many people. Mom and Dad use finance every day when they pay for food and bills.
Finch\n\nA finch is a small bird that sings pretty songs. It has a short, strong beak for eating seeds. You can see it in trees, bushes, and sometimes at a bird feeder in a yard. It pecks at seeds and flies from branch to branch. Some finches are bright yellow, red, or brown. A child might spot one hopping on the grass looking for food.
Find\n\nFind means to look for something and then see it. When you play hide-and-seek, you try to find your friends. You can find a lost toy under the bed. You can also find a pretty rock on the ground. Finding something makes you feel happy.
Fine\n\nFine means something is very good or okay. When you draw a picture and it looks nice, you can say it is fine. If you fall down but you are not hurt, you can say you are fine. Sometimes a grown-up says "That is fine" to mean they are not upset.
Finger\n\nA finger is a long, thin part of your hand. It has small bones inside that help it bend. You have five of them on each hand. The thumb is the short, thick one that can touch the other fingers. It helps you hold a spoon, a crayon, or a toy. The other four are longer and have three little bones each. You use them to point, to pick up small things, and to feel if something is soft or hard. When you wave hello, your fingers move together.
Fingerprint\n\nA fingerprint is a tiny pattern on the tip of your finger. It looks like little lines that go round and round. Every person has a different pattern, so no two people have the same one. You can see it when you press your finger on a window or a shiny table. Police and helpers use it to know who a person is. Some phones and doors open when they see your fingerprint.
Finish\n\nFinish means something is all done. It is when you stop doing a job or a game. When you eat all your food, your plate is finished. You can say "I finish my drawing" when the picture is ready. At the end of a race, the first person to cross the line is the finish.
Finland\n\nFinland is a country far up north in Europe. It has many trees, lakes, and islands. The weather is cold in winter and warm in summer. People there speak Finnish and Swedish. Many people like to go to a hot room called a sauna. In the very north, you can see colorful lights in the sky at night.
Fir\n\nA fir is a tall tree that stays green all year. It has thin, pointy leaves that look like little needles. The tree grows a sticky, gooey juice inside its trunk. You can find it in forests or in parks. People sometimes use its wood to make flat boards for building things inside a house. Many people also plant a fir in their yard because it looks pretty. At Christmas time, some families bring a small fir inside and put lights and shiny balls on it.
Fire\n\nFire is a hot, bright thing that can burn. It is made of light and heat. You can see it in a candle, a campfire, or a stove. It helps people cook food and stay warm on cold days. But it can also hurt you if you touch it, so you must be very careful. Firefighters are people who stop big fires and keep us safe.
Fire ant\n\nA fire ant is a tiny red-brown bug that lives in big groups. It has six legs, a head, and a sharp stinger on its back end. You find it in warm places like dirt, grass, and near sidewalks. It stings to protect its home, and the sting hurts a lot and makes a red bump. If you see a mound of dirt in a yard, that might be a fire ant home. Do not touch it!
Firearm\n\nA firearm is a tool that shoots a small metal piece very fast. It is made of hard metal and has a long tube called a barrel. Police officers and soldiers sometimes carry one to keep people safe. It makes a very loud bang when it shoots. You should never touch one without a grown-up.
Firefighter\n\nA firefighter is a person who helps put out fires. He wears a big heavy coat, tall boots, and a hard hat to stay safe. You can see him at a fire station with a big red truck. He uses a long hose to spray water on the fire. He also helps people and animals get out of burning buildings. Sometimes he visits schools to teach kids about fire safety.
Firefighting\n\nFirefighting is the job of stopping big fires. A firefighter is a person who does this job. They wear a heavy coat, a hard hat, and boots to stay safe. They ride in a big red truck with a loud siren. When they get to a fire, they use a long hose to spray water on the flames. The water makes the fire cool and weak so it goes out. They also save people and pets from burning buildings. You might see a fire truck at a parade or hear its siren on the street.
Firefly\n\nA firefly is a small bug that can make its own light. It has a soft body, six legs, and two wings. You can see it at night in warm, wet places like near a pond or in a field. It flashes its light to find a friend. The light is a yellow-green glow that turns on and off. Some people call it a lightning bug. When you catch one in your hand, it feels light and tickly.
Fireplace\n\nA fireplace is a special place in a house where you can make a fire. It is made of hard bricks or metal. It has a big open space to hold the fire, and a tall pipe called a chimney that takes the smoke up and out of the house. Long ago, people used it to keep warm and to cook food. Now, many people use it to feel cozy and watch the flames dance. You might see one in a living room or in a storybook about a snowy day.
Firework\n\nA firework is a bright, colorful light that shoots up into the night sky. It makes a loud boom and then bursts into many tiny sparkles. People light it on special days like New Year's Eve or a big party. You can see it high above houses and trees, painting the dark with red, green, gold, and blue. It is loud, so sometimes little kids cover their ears. After the boom, it fades away like magic.
Fireworks display\n\nA fireworks display is a show of bright lights and loud sounds in the night sky. It uses small rockets that shoot up high and burst into colors like red, green, and gold. You can see it on special days like New Year's Eve or a big party. People watch it outside and say 'ooh' and 'aah' when the sky sparkles. It makes a boom and a crackle that you can feel in your chest.
First\n\nFirst means before all others. It is the spot at the very front of a line. When you race with friends, the one who gets to the end first wins. You might be first in line for a slide at the park. Being first feels exciting.
First aid\n\nFirst aid is helping someone who is hurt or sick right away. It is what you do before a doctor or a grown-up helper comes. You can use a small box called a first aid kit, but you do not always need one. It can be done at home, at the park, or anywhere someone needs help. For example, if a friend falls and scrapes a knee, you can help by cleaning the cut and putting on a bandage.
Fish\n\nA fish is an animal that lives in water. It has a long body covered with small, flat pieces called scales. It breathes by taking water in through its mouth and pushing it out through slits on the side of its head. Most fish have fins to help them swim. You can find fish in the ocean, in lakes, and in rivers. Some fish are tiny, and some are very big. People catch fish to eat, and some people keep small, colorful fish in a glass tank at home.
Fish as food\n\nFish is a food that comes from the water. It has soft, white or pink meat inside. People cook it in many ways, like baking, frying, or grilling. You can find it at the store or at a restaurant. Eating fish helps your body grow strong because it has good stuff called protein. Some fish, like salmon, have special oils that are good for your heart.
Fishing\n\nFishing is when people try to catch fish. It can happen in the sea, a lake, or a river. People use a long stick called a rod, a string, and a hook to catch fish. Some people fish from a boat, and some stand on the shore. It gives us food to eat, like fish for dinner. Some people fish just for fun and let the fish go after they catch it.
Fishing industry\n\nThe fishing industry is all the work people do to bring fish from the water to your plate. It includes catching fish in the sea, rivers, or lakes. Some people do it for fun, and some do it as their job. Big boats go far out to catch many fish at once. Then the fish are cleaned, cut, and packed in ice so they stay fresh. Trucks and planes carry the fish to stores and markets. Many people around the world eat fish every day because of this work.
Fist\n\nA fist is a hand with all the fingers curled in tight. It looks like a small, round ball at the end of your arm. You can make a fist by bending your fingers and thumb. People sometimes make a fist to show they are strong or to bump a friend's fist as a hello. A fist can also hold things like a toy or a spoon very tightly.
Fit\n\nFit means something is the right size or shape for a person or a place. When you try on a shirt and it is not too big and not too small, it fits you. A puzzle piece fits when it goes into the right spot. Shoes that are too tight do not fit well. You can also say a person is fit when they are strong and healthy from running and playing.
Five\n\nFive is a number. It comes after four and before six. You can count five fingers on one hand. A starfish often has five arms. When you see five dots on a dice, you know it is five.
Five Pillars of Islam\n\nThe Five Pillars of Islam are five important rules for people who follow Islam. They are like five big jobs that Muslims try to do. One job is to say a special sentence about God. Another job is to pray five times every day. A third job is to give a little money to help people who need it. A fourth job is to not eat or drink during the day for one whole month. The last job is to visit a special city called Mecca one time in life. These five jobs help Muslims feel close to God and be kind to others.
Fix\n\nFix means to make something broken work again. When a toy stops moving, you can fix it with glue or new batteries. A grown-up might fix a flat tire on a bike. People also fix food, like making a sandwich. Fixing things helps keep them nice and useful.
Fixed-wing aircraft\n\nA fixed-wing aircraft is a big machine that flies in the sky. It has two long flat wings that do not flap. It also has a long body, a tail, and wheels under it. You can see it at an airport, where it takes off and lands on a long road. It carries people and boxes from one city to another very fast. A trip that takes a week on a boat takes only a few hours in it. Some of them are used by soldiers to keep a country safe. A glider is one without an engine that rides on the wind.
Fizz\n\nFizz is a soft, bubbly sound. It sounds like tiny bubbles popping one after another. You can hear it when you open a can of soda or when you pour a fizzy drink into a glass. It also happens when you drop a bath bomb into water. The sound is quick and tickles your ears.
Fizzy\n\nFizzy means full of tiny bubbles that tickle your tongue. It feels like a soft pop-pop-pop in your mouth. You find it in drinks like soda or sparkling water. When you open a fizzy drink, you hear a hiss and see bubbles rise up. It makes a drink fun and tingly to sip.
Fjord\n\nA fjord is a long, narrow part of the sea that goes deep into the land. It has tall, steep walls of rock on both sides. It was made a long time ago by big, slow rivers of ice. You can find it in cold places like Norway and Canada. Boats can sail into it, and people build towns near the water. The water is very deep and often looks dark blue or green.
Flag\n\nA flag is a piece of cloth with colors and a picture on it. It hangs from a tall stick called a pole. You can see it flying high outside a school, a big building, or in a parade. It stands for a country or a group of people. For example, the flag of Japan is white with a big red circle in the middle. The red circle looks like the sun. People wave a flag to show they are happy and proud.
Flame\n\nA flame is the bright, hot part of a fire. It is often yellow, orange, or red, and it dances and flickers. You can see it on a candle, a match, or a campfire. It gives us light and warmth. But it is very hot, so you must never touch it. When you blow on a small flame, it can go out.
Flamenco\n\nFlamenco is a kind of show with music, singing, and dancing. It has guitar playing, hand clapping, and feet stomping. People do it in Spain, and it is very famous there. A man and a woman dance in pretty clothes. The dance can be fast or slow, and it gets very exciting near the end. You might see it at a big party or on a stage.
Flamingo\n\nA flamingo is a tall bird with long, thin legs. It has pink or red feathers and a curved beak that looks like a banana. It lives near lakes and water, standing in big groups. It eats tiny things in the water that make its feathers pink. It often stands on one leg to rest. You might see one at a zoo or in a picture book.
Flap\n\nA flap is a flat piece that hangs from one side. It can move up and down. You see a flap on an envelope—it is the part you fold to close it. Some hats have ear flaps that keep your ears warm. A dog door often has a flap that swings when a pet goes through.
Flare\n\nA flare is a bright, hot light that shoots up into the sky. It looks like a big, colorful spark that burns for a short time. People use it on a boat or in the mountains to call for help when they are lost. You might see one far away at night, like a red or orange star falling slowly. It is not a toy—only grown-ups should use it.
Flash\n\nA flash is a very quick, bright light. It happens fast and then goes away. You might see a flash when someone takes a picture with a camera. Lightning in the sky is a big flash during a storm. A flashlight makes a flash when you turn it on and off quickly.
Flat\n\nA flat is a home where people live. It is a set of rooms inside a bigger building. Many flats are in tall buildings in a city. It has a door, windows, a kitchen, a bathroom, and a place to sleep. Some families live in a flat together. You might see a flat when you visit a friend who lives in an apartment building.
Flatfish\n\nA flatfish is a fish that is very flat, like a pancake. It has both eyes on one side of its head. It lives at the bottom of the ocean and hides in the sand. It can change its color to look like the sand or rocks around it. Some flatfish are flounder, sole, and halibut. People catch them to eat.
Flatworm\n\nA flatworm is a tiny animal with a soft, flat body. It looks like a thin, squishy ribbon. You can find it in water like ponds or rivers, and sometimes in wet dirt. Some flatworms live inside other animals and can make them sick. One kind came to new places by accident and ate many earthworms there.
Flavor\n\nFlavor is how food or drink tastes in your mouth. It can be sweet like candy, sour like a lemon, salty like a chip, or bitter like dark chocolate. Your tongue feels the flavor when you eat. Some foods have one flavor, and some have many flavors mixed together. Ice cream comes in many flavors like strawberry, chocolate, and vanilla.
Flax\n\nFlax is a plant with pretty blue flowers. It grows tall and thin with small green leaves. People grow it in fields to use its parts. From the stem, they make soft cloth called linen. From the seeds, they make oil for wood and paint. Some paper money is made from it too. You might see a flax flower in a garden or a shirt made from its stem.
Flea\n\nA flea is a tiny bug that lives on animals like dogs and cats. It has a small, flat body and strong legs that help it jump very far. You can find it outside in tall grass or sand. It bites the skin to drink a little blood, which makes a red bump that feels itchy. Some fleas live on rats, and long ago they carried a sickness that made many people very sick.
Fleet\n\nA fleet is a big group of boats or ships that move together. It can also be a group of cars or trucks that belong to one company. You might see a fleet of fishing boats at the harbor, all painted the same color. A fleet of delivery trucks brings packages to many houses. The boats or trucks in a fleet work as a team.
Flick\n\nA flick is a quick, light hit with your finger. It looks like a fast snap or tap. You can do it by pressing your thumb and middle finger together and then letting go. People use a flick to move a small bug off a table or to send a paper ball flying. You might see a flick when someone plays a game with marbles or when a grown-up taps a light switch.
Flight\n\nFlight is moving through the air. It happens when a bird, a bug, or a plane goes up and stays up. A bird flaps its wings to push against the air and lift its body. A plane has big metal wings and engines that help it go fast and high. You can see flight when a butterfly flutters in the garden or when a big jet leaves a white line in the sky.
Flip\n\nFlip is when something turns over fast. It can be a toy, a pancake, or even your body. You see a flip when a pancake flies up in a pan and lands on its other side. Some kids do a flip in the water at the pool. A flip is quick and fun to watch.
Float\n\nTo float is to stay on top of water without sinking. It looks like lying very still on your back or tummy. You can do it in a pool, a lake, or the sea. When you float, the water holds you up and you do not go under. A rubber duck in the bathtub is a good example of something that floats.
Flood\n\nA flood is when too much water covers the land. It happens after very heavy rain or when a river spills over its sides. The water can fill streets and even come into houses. During a flood, people move to high places to stay safe. The water is often dirty and not good to drink. After the water goes away, things can be muddy and broken.
Floodplain\n\nA floodplain is flat land next to a river. It gets covered with water when the river gets too full. The water leaves behind soft, rich dirt that helps plants grow. Farmers like to grow food on it because the dirt is so good. You might see tall grass or corn growing there. Sometimes people build small walls called levees to keep the water away from houses.
Floor\n\nA floor is the flat part of a room that you walk on. It is under your feet when you are inside a house or a building. It can be made of wood, stone, or soft carpet. Some floors are shiny and smooth, and some are bumpy. In a big building, the word floor also means a whole level, like the first floor or the second floor. You take stairs or an elevator to go up to another floor. At a gym, people do jumps and rolls on a special soft floor.
Florence\n\nFlorence is a big city in a country called Italy. It sits next to a river named the Arno. Many old and pretty buildings stand there, with tall towers and big stone churches. Long ago, famous painters and builders made beautiful art in it. Today, people visit to see the art and walk on old bridges. They also eat tasty food like bread soup and big grilled steak.
Florida\n\nFlorida is a warm, sunny state in the southeast part of the United States. It is a big piece of land with water on three sides. On one side is the big Atlantic Ocean, and on the other side is the warm Gulf of Mexico. It has many beaches with soft sand where you can play and swim. In the middle of Florida is a very big, shallow lake called Lake Okeechobee. Down at the bottom tip are many tiny islands called the Florida Keys. A lot of Florida used to be a wet, grassy swamp called the Everglades. Now it is a park where alligators and panthers live. People visit Florida to go to fun parks like Walt Disney World, where you can meet Mickey Mouse. It is also a place where people grow oranges and other fruits because the sun shines almost every day.
Flour\n\nFlour is a soft, white powder. It is made when grains like wheat are crushed very small. You can find it in a kitchen or a big store. People use it to make bread, cookies, cakes, and pasta. When you mix it with water and eggs, it turns into dough. Then you can bake it in a hot oven. Some flour has tiny bubbles inside that make the food puff up and feel light.
Flow\n\nFlow is when something moves along like water in a river. It is smooth and keeps going without stopping. You can see it when you pour milk into a cup or when a stream runs down a hill. It can also be a feeling when you are doing something fun and forget about time, like drawing or building with blocks.
Flower\n\nA flower is the pretty part of a plant. It has soft, colorful parts called petals. You can find flowers in gardens, parks, and fields. Bees and butterflies visit flowers to sip sweet juice. People give flowers as a gift to show love or to say happy things.
Flowering plant\n\nA flowering plant is a plant that makes flowers and fruit. It has green leaves, a stem, and roots that grow in the ground. You can find it in gardens, parks, and forests all around the world. It makes seeds inside the fruit, and the seeds can grow into new plants. Many animals like bees and birds visit the flowers to help them make seeds. An apple tree is a flowering plant that gives us apples to eat.
Flu\n\nThe flu is a sickness that makes you feel very tired and achy. It can give you a hot head, a runny nose, and a cough. You catch it from tiny germs that float in the air when someone sick sneezes or coughs. It can make you stay in bed all day. To feel better, you need lots of rest, warm soup, and water to drink. Washing your hands often helps keep the germs away.
Fluffy\n\nFluffy is a word for something that feels very soft and light. It looks like a cloud or a pile of cotton balls. You can find fluffy things in many places, like a soft blanket on your bed or a stuffed animal you hug. A fluffy puppy has fur that sticks out and feels nice to touch. When you pet something fluffy, your hand sinks in a little bit and it feels warm and cozy.
Fluorescence\n\nFluorescence is a special kind of light. It happens when something takes in light we cannot see and then gives back light we can see. It stops glowing as soon as the light that shines on it goes away. You can find it in some rocks that glow under a purple lamp. Some bright markers and stickers also use it to look very colorful.
Flush\n\nFlush means to push water through a toilet to make it clean. When you press the handle or button, water rushes down and carries everything away. You find a flush in every bathroom. It helps keep the room smelling fresh and clean. After you use the toilet, you always flush it.
Flute\n\nA flute is a long, thin tube that makes music. It is made of shiny silver metal, but long ago it was made of wood. You hold it sideways and blow across a hole at one end to make a sound. It has many small buttons called keys that you press to change the notes. The sound can be high and happy like a bird singing, or low and soft. You can hear it in a big group of instruments called an orchestra. Some flutes are very small and make very high sounds.
Fly\n\nA fly is a small bug with two wings. It has big eyes that see all around. It is very fast and hard to catch. A fly starts as a tiny egg, then grows into a little worm, and later gets a hard shell before it comes out as a fly. You can see it near food or trash on a warm day.
Flying disc\n\nA flying disc is a round, flat toy that you throw through the air. It has a thick edge that makes it easy to hold and spin. You can find it at parks, beaches, or in your backyard. People throw it to each other for fun, or play games like catch. Some people even play sports with it, like a game where you run and pass it to your team. When you throw it the right way, it spins and flies far without wobbling.
Flying fish\n\nA flying fish is a small fish that can jump out of the water and glide in the air. It has big, stiff fins that look like wings. It lives in warm oceans all over the world. When a bigger fish wants to eat it, it swims very fast and jumps up to get away. It can glide far above the water, sometimes for a long time. It does not flap its fins like a bird, so it does not really fly. Some flying fish can glide as long as you count to 45.
Foam\n\nFoam is a bunch of tiny bubbles all stuck together. It looks white and fluffy, like the top of a bubble bath. You can find it on the beach where waves hit the sand. It is also in a cup of hot chocolate with whipped cream on top. When you blow air into soapy water, you make foam. It feels light and soft, and it pops when you touch it.
Focus\n\nFocus means you look at one thing and think about only that thing. It is like a flashlight that shines on one spot. When you focus, your eyes stay still and your brain works hard on that one job. You can focus when you color a picture, build with blocks, or listen to a story. It helps you learn and finish your work.
Fog\n\nFog is a cloud that sits on the ground. It is made of tiny water drops that float in the air. You can see it outside on a cold morning. It makes things far away look blurry and hard to see. When the air gets warm, it goes away.
Fold\n\nA fold is a bend in something flat, like paper or cloth. It makes a straight line where the flat thing is doubled over. You can find folds in a blanket, a towel, or a piece of paper. People make folds when they want to make something smaller or neater. For example, when you fold a paper airplane, you make many folds so it can fly.
Folder\n\nA folder is a flat cover that holds papers together. It is made of thick paper or thin plastic. You can find it on a desk, in a school bag, or in an office. People use it to keep homework, drawings, and important papers safe and tidy. It has two sides that open and close like a book. Some folders have pockets inside to slide papers in. A child might use a bright red folder to carry art projects home.
Folk\n\nFolk is a group of people who share old stories, songs, and ways of doing things. They often live in the same place for a long time. They make music with simple tools like drums or wooden flutes. You might hear folk songs at a family party or a town fair. These songs tell about love, work, and fun times.
Folk dance\n\nA folk dance is a special kind of dance that people do together. It is often done at parties, festivals, or big family gatherings. People wear colorful clothes and move in a circle or a line. Some folk dances use sticks or swords, but they are not real swords—they are just for the dance. In Europe, many countries have their own folk dances. For example, you might see people dancing in a square, holding hands, and stepping to happy music. It is a way for people to share fun and remember old stories.
Folk music\n\nFolk music is music that comes from a place and its people. It is not written down. People learn it by listening and singing together. It can be a happy song for dancing or a slow song that tells a story. You might hear it at a family party or a town fair. Some people play it with a guitar, a drum, or just their hands. It is music for everyone to enjoy.
Folklore\n\nFolklore is the old stories, songs, and ways of a group of people. It is passed down by talking, not by writing in a book. It can be a story like Little Red Riding Hood, a song your grandma sings, or a dance at a party. People share it to remember where they came from. You might hear it at bedtime or at a family get-together.
Follow\n\nFollow means to go after someone or something. When you walk behind your friend on the playground, you follow them. It can also mean to do what someone says, like when you follow the rules at home. You might follow a line on the floor with your feet. A puppy can follow its owner around the house.
Font\n\nA font is a set of letters and numbers that all look the same way. It can be round, straight, or curly. You see fonts in books, on signs, and on a computer screen. When you type on a keyboard, you can pick a font to make your words look different. Some fonts are easy to read, and some are just for fun.
Food\n\nFood is what people eat to stay alive and grow. It can come from plants, like fruits and vegetables, or from animals, like meat and eggs. You find food in your kitchen, at a store, or in a garden. It gives your body energy to run, play, and think. A sandwich with bread, cheese, and a slice of apple is a simple food you might have for lunch.
Food group\n\nA food group is a way to sort foods that are alike. It puts foods into families so we can eat a mix of good things every day. You can find food groups on a colorful plate or a poster at school. It helps you pick foods that make your body strong and give you energy. For example, apples and bananas are in the fruit group, and carrots and broccoli are in the vegetable group.
Food industry\n\nThe food industry is all the people and places that make our food. It starts on farms where fruits, vegetables, and animals grow. Then big kitchens and factories cook, mix, and pack the food into boxes and cans. Trucks and trains carry it to stores near your home. When your family buys bread, milk, or apples at the store, that food came from the food industry.
Food poisoning\n\nFood poisoning is when you get sick from eating food that is not good. It can make your tummy hurt and you may throw up. You might also have a fever or feel very tired. It can happen if food is old, not cooked enough, or touched by dirty hands. Most people feel better after a day or two. But it can be more dangerous for babies, old people, or people who are already sick. To stay safe, always wash your hands before eating and keep food cold until you cook it.
Food preservation\n\nFood preservation is a way to keep food good for a long time. It stops tiny bugs called germs from making the food go bad. People dry food in the sun, like fish or meat, so it stays safe to eat. They also use salt to keep food fresh, like salty meat. Another way is to put food in a jar and heat it, like pickles or fruit jam. This helps the food last for many days or even months.
Fool\n\nA fool is a person who does silly things. He might trip over his own feet or wear his shirt inside out. You can find him in stories, jokes, and sometimes on a stage making people laugh. He makes funny mistakes that teach us not to be too serious. In old tales, a king's fool would wear a colorful hat with bells and make the king smile.
Foot\n\nA foot is the part at the end of your leg that you stand on. It has five small toes, a soft bottom, and a hard heel at the back. You find feet on people, dogs, cats, birds, and many other animals. It helps you walk, run, jump, and keep your body up. Some animals walk on their toes, and some put their whole foot down. A duck has wide, flat feet for swimming. You put shoes on your feet to keep them safe and warm.
Foot (unit)\n\nA foot is a way to measure how long something is. It is about as long as a grown-up's shoe. You can use it to tell how tall a person is or how big a room is. When you see a ruler, one foot is the same as 12 little inches. In some places, people use feet to show how high a door or a bridge is.
Football\n\nFootball is a game where two teams try to kick a ball into a goal. It is played on a big green field with lines. Each team has eleven players who run and kick the ball. The goal is a big net at each end of the field. People all over the world love to watch football games. You might see kids playing it at a park or on a school field.
Footprint\n\nA footprint is a mark your foot leaves behind. It shows the shape of your shoe or your bare foot. You can find it in soft mud, wet sand, or snow. When you walk on a beach, you leave a trail of footprints. Animals like dogs and birds also make footprints. You can tell who walked by looking at the size and shape.
For\n\nA for is a word we use to show who gets something or why we do something. It is a small word, but we say it a lot. You might hear it when Mom says, "This cookie is for you." It can also tell where something is going, like "We are going for a walk." When you draw a picture for your friend, you use this word to show it is a gift.
Forbidden City\n\nThe Forbidden City is a very big, old palace in Beijing, China. It has red walls and golden roofs. A long time ago, the emperor of China lived there with his family. No one could go in or out without the emperor saying yes, so it was called forbidden. Today, people can visit it and see beautiful rooms and old treasures. It is like a giant museum.
Force\n\nA force is a push or a pull. It can make things move, stop, or change shape. You can see it when you push a toy car or pull a wagon. It can also twist things, like when you turn a doorknob. Gravity is a force that pulls everything down to the ground. When you jump, gravity pulls you back down. Magnets also use a force to stick to the fridge.
Forecasting\n\nForecasting is a way to guess what will happen next. It uses clues and facts to make a smart guess. People do forecasting for the weather, like saying it will rain tomorrow. They also do it for money, like guessing if things will cost more. Sometimes the guess is right, and sometimes it is wrong. It is like looking at dark clouds and thinking, "It might rain soon."
Forensic science\n\nForensic science is a way to use science to help solve puzzles about a crime. It looks at tiny things left behind, like a hair or a fingerprint. People who do this work go to a lab and check the things very carefully. They make sure the answer is right so the wrong person does not get in trouble. A fingerprint is a mark your finger leaves when you touch something. A hair can tell if a boy or a girl was there. It helps the police find out what really happened.
Forest\n\nA forest is a big piece of land with many, many trees. It is a home for lots of animals, like bears, deer, birds, and bugs. You can find forests in many places around the world, but not in deserts where it is too dry. Some forests are cold and have trees with needles, while others are warm and have trees with big leaves. In a forest, the trees grow close together and make shade on the ground. Many animals live in the trees or under them, and they find food and shelter there.
Forestry\n\nForestry is a job of taking care of big woods. A person who does this job is called a forester. It makes sure the trees and animals stay healthy. It also stops fires from burning the woods too soon. People can walk and play in a forest that is cared for. Trees help make the air clean for us to breathe.
Forever\n\nForever means something that never, ever ends. It is a very, very long time. You cannot count how many days it is. When you love someone with all your heart, that love can feel like forever. A circle has no start and no stop, so it goes on forever.
Forge\n\nA forge is a hot, hot place where people make things out of metal. It has a big fire that gets very, very hot. The fire makes the metal soft so a person can hit it with a hammer and bend it into a new shape. A long time ago, people used a forge to make swords, horseshoes, and tools. Today, some people still use it to make pretty gates or art. You might see a forge in a movie about knights or in a museum.
Forget\n\nTo forget is when something leaves your mind. It is like a picture that fades away. You might forget where you put your toy or what you had for breakfast. It happens to everyone, even grown-ups. Sometimes you try hard to remember, but the thought stays hidden. When you forget, you can ask a friend or look around to find the answer.
Forging\n\nForging is a way to shape hot metal by hitting it hard. A person called a smith does this work. They use a big, heavy hammer and a flat block called an anvil. The metal gets very hot in a fire so it is soft. Then the smith hits it to make things like spoons, hammers, or swords. Today, big machines also help hit the metal. You can see forged things at home, like a metal pot or a tool in the garage.
Forgiveness\n\nForgiveness is when you stop feeling mad at someone who did something wrong. It is a choice you make in your heart. You do not try to hurt them back. You let go of the angry feeling. It can happen even if the other person does not say sorry. Many people learn about forgiveness from their family or their place of worship. It helps you feel light and happy again.
Fork\n\nA fork is a tool for eating food. It has a long handle and a few pointy parts at the end. The pointy parts are called tines. Most forks have three or four tines. It helps you hold food still when you cut it with a knife. You can also use it to pick up food and bring it to your mouth. Forks are made of metal, plastic, or wood. You see it on the table when you eat dinner.
Form\n\nA form is a piece of paper with empty spaces to fill in. It has lines or boxes where you write your name, your age, or other things about you. You might see a form at the doctor's office or at school. Grown-ups use forms to sign up for things or to get a library card. A form helps people know what to write and where to write it.
Formation and evolution of the Solar System\n\nThe Solar System is the Sun and everything that moves around it. It started a very long time ago from a big cloud of gas and dust in space. The cloud spun and got flat like a pancake. Most of the stuff went to the middle and became the Sun. The rest made the planets, moons, and rocks. Earth is one of those planets, and it is our home.
Fort\n\nA fort is a strong building made to keep people safe. It has tall, thick walls and sometimes a big gate. Long ago, soldiers lived in a fort to watch for danger. You can find old forts on hills or near water. Some forts have towers where people could look far away. Today, many families visit a fort to learn about old times.
Forth\n\nForth is a way to say 'moving forward' or 'going ahead'. It means something is not going back. When you walk forth, you take steps to the front. In a story, a hero may go forth on a big trip. You can also say 'from this day forth' to mean starting now and going into the future.
Fortification\n\nA fortification is a strong wall or building that keeps people safe from danger. It is made of thick stone, wood, or dirt. You can find it around old castles or on hills where soldiers once stood. Long ago, people used it to stop enemies from coming in. A big castle with tall walls is one kind of fortification.
Forty\n\nForty is a number. It comes after thirty-nine and before forty-one. You can see it on a clock when the big hand is on the eight. If you have forty crayons, you have a big box with many colors.
Forward\n\nForward means going to the front. It is the way you move when you walk ahead. You can also push a toy car forward on the floor. When you play a game, you might take a step forward. It is the opposite of backward.
Fossil\n\nA fossil is a very old part of an animal or plant that has turned into stone. It looks like a rock, but it has the shape of a bone, a shell, or a leaf. You can find fossils inside big rocks or in the ground, especially near cliffs and beaches. Scientists dig them up and put them in museums so people can see them. A dinosaur bone is a fossil that many children know.
Fossil fuel\n\nFossil fuel is a kind of fuel that comes from very old plants and tiny animals. It is found deep under the ground. People dig it up or pump it out. There are three main kinds: coal, oil, and gas. Coal is a hard black rock. Oil is a thick dark liquid. Gas is like air you cannot see. People burn it to make cars go, to cook food, and to make lights turn on. But burning it makes the air dirty and makes the Earth too warm. One day, it will all be gone because we cannot make more.
Foundation (engineering)\n\nA foundation is the bottom part of a building. It sits under the ground and holds the building up. It is made of very strong stuff like hard rock or concrete. Builders dig a deep hole to put it in. A heavy building needs a deep foundation so it does not fall down. When you see a tall house, it has a foundation under it that you cannot see.
Fountain\n\nA fountain is a thing that holds water and lets it move. It can be a big bowl or many bowls where water flows from one to the next. You can find it in a park, a garden, or a big city square. Some fountains shoot water high up into the air. Others are small and give people a drink of water. At school or the store, you might see a drinking fountain on the wall. You push a button and cool water comes out for you to sip.
Four\n\nFour is a number. It comes after three and before five. You can see it on a clock, on a dice, or when you count your fingers. It is how many legs a dog has and how many wheels a car has. When you are four years old, you can hold up four fingers.
Fourteen\n\nFourteen is a number. It comes after thirteen and before fifteen. You can count fourteen things, like fourteen crayons in a box. It is two groups of seven. When you see the number 14, that is fourteen.
Fowl\n\nA fowl is a bird that people raise for food. It has feathers, two legs, and a beak. You can find it on a farm. People eat its eggs and meat. A chicken is a kind of fowl you might see at a farm or in a book.
Fox\n\nA fox is a small wild animal with soft, thick fur. It has pointy ears, a long thin nose, and a big fluffy tail. It lives in forests, fields, and sometimes near towns. It runs very fast and hunts small animals like mice and rabbits. It also eats fruit and bugs. The most common kind is the red fox, which has orange-red fur and a white tip on its tail.
Fraction\n\nA fraction is a part of a whole thing. It is like when you cut a pizza into pieces. One piece is a fraction of the pizza. You see fractions when you share a cookie with a friend. Each of you gets one half, which is a fraction. You can also find it in a glass of milk when you drink some and leave the rest.
Frame\n\nA frame is a border that goes around a picture. It is made of wood, metal, or plastic. You can find it on a wall in a house or a museum. It holds a photo or a painting so it looks nice and stays safe. Sometimes it has glass in front to keep dust away.
France\n\nFrance is a big country far away across the ocean. It has green hills, tall mountains, and long rivers. You can find it on a map of the world, next to other countries like Spain and Germany. Many people visit France to see a very tall iron tower called the Eiffel Tower. They eat long, thin bread called a baguette and soft, smelly cheese. In France, people speak a language called French. They say "bonjour" to say hello.
Francis of Assisi\n\nFrancis of Assisi was a kind man who lived a long, long time ago. He was born in a town called Assisi in Italy. When he was young, he had nice clothes and money, but later he gave all of that away. He wore simple, rough clothes and helped people who were sick or poor. He loved animals very much. A story says he talked to a big, hungry wolf and made it stop scaring a village. People remember him as a friend to all animals. On his special day, some churches let people bring their pets to be blessed.
Frankenstein\n\nFrankenstein is a story about a man who makes a big, scary creature. The man is a scientist who puts together body parts and brings the creature to life with lightning. The creature is very tall and looks strange, so people run away from it. It feels sad and lonely because no one wants to be its friend. The creature asks the scientist to make a friend for it, but he does not. Many people call the creature Frankenstein, even though that is the scientist's name in the story. You might see a picture of the creature with a flat head and bolts in its neck around Halloween.
Free\n\nFree means you do not have to pay money for something. It is like when a friend gives you a sticker and you do not give any coins back. You can also be free to run and play outside, not stuck inside. Some things are free for everyone, like air to breathe or a park to visit.
Free and open-source software\n\nFree and open-source software is a kind of computer program. It is made by people who share the recipe, called code, with everyone. Anyone can look at the code, change it, or give it to a friend. It is often free like a gift, so you do not pay money. Many people work together to make it better. You can find it on computers, phones, and tablets. An example is a drawing program that kids use at school.
Free will\n\nFree will is the feeling that you can pick what you do. It means you choose between two things, like a red crayon or a blue crayon. When you pick the red one all by yourself, that is free will. It is inside your head when you think hard and then decide. People use it every day, like when you pick a snack or a game to play. If no one tells you what to do, you are using your free will.
Freedom\n\nFreedom is when you can choose what to do. It means no one tells you what to play or where to go all the time. You feel it when you pick your own toy or run in the park. Birds have freedom when they fly high in the sky. At home, you have some freedom, like picking your shirt color. But freedom also means you must be safe and kind.
Freedom of religion\n\nFreedom of religion means you can pick your own faith. It is a rule that says no one can tell you what to believe. You can go to a church, a temple, a mosque, or stay home and not pray at all. The people in charge of a country cannot make you follow one religion. In the United States, a very important paper says the government must let people worship in their own way. This helps everyone feel safe and free.
Freedom of speech\n\nFreedom of speech means you can say what you think and share your ideas. It is a rule that lets people talk without being stopped or punished. You see it in places where people can speak in front of others, like at a big meeting or on TV. It helps people tell the leaders what they need and want. But you cannot say things that hurt others, like yelling about a fire when there is no fire, because that can scare people.
Freetown\n\nFreetown is a big city in the country of Sierra Leone in Africa. It sits next to the big blue ocean. Many boats come and go from its port, bringing fish, rice, and other things. A very old, big cotton tree grows in the middle of the city. Long ago, people who were once slaves came to live there and made it their home. Today, many people live and work in Freetown. You can see old churches, a museum, and sandy beaches there.
Freeze\n\nFreeze means something gets very, very cold and turns hard. When water gets cold enough, it turns into ice. You can see this when you put a tray of water in the freezer. After a while, it is not water anymore — it is solid ice. People also freeze food to keep it fresh for a long time. In winter, puddles outside can freeze, and you can slide on them.
Freezer\n\nA freezer is a big cold box in the kitchen. It has a door that you pull open. Inside, it is very, very cold. It keeps food frozen so it stays good for a long time. You can put ice cream, frozen peas, and meat in it. When you take food out, it is hard like a rock. The freezer helps families save food for later.
Freezing\n\nFreezing is when a liquid turns into a solid because it gets very cold. It happens when the liquid loses heat and its tiny parts slow down and lock together. You can see freezing when water turns into ice in a freezer. Outside, freezing makes frost on the grass and ice on puddles. People use freezing to keep food fresh for a long time. It also helps make snow and hail in the sky.
Freighter\n\nA freighter is a big boat that carries things across the water. It has a long, wide body and a tall front part. You can see it at a big dock by the sea or on a wide river. It moves boxes, cars, food, and toys from one place to another. Some freighters have their own big arms to pick up heavy boxes. It is like a floating truck that travels all over the world.
French\n\nFrench is a way of talking and writing. It is used by people in a country called France. Many people in other places also use it. You might hear it in a song or a movie. Some words like 'bonjour' mean hello.
French food\n\nFrench food is the kind of cooking that comes from a country called France. It uses many fresh things like butter, cream, herbs, and cheese. In the north, people cook with butter. In the south, they use olive oil and garlic. Each part of France has its own special dish. One dish is a soft egg pie called quiche. Another is a fish soup called bouillabaisse. French food is known all over the world. Many cooks in big restaurants learn to make it.
French language\n\nFrench is a way of talking that many people use. It sounds soft and pretty, like a song. You can hear it in France, a country far away, and in other places too. People say "bonjour" to mean hello and "merci" to mean thank you. It uses the same letters as English, but some letters have little marks on top. Many words look like English words, like "table" and "fruit".
French literature\n\nFrench literature is a big group of stories, poems, and books written in the French language. It comes from France, but people in other countries also write it. You can find it in libraries, bookstores, and schools. People read it to enjoy a good story or to learn something new. A child might see a picture book with French words, like a story about a little boy named Babar the elephant.
French Polynesia\n\nFrench Polynesia is a group of many islands in the big blue ocean. It has warm water and sandy beaches. People live on islands like Tahiti, which is the biggest one. The main town is called Papeete. You can see tall green mountains and pretty flowers there. Many people visit to swim and play in the sun.
French Revolution\n\nThe French Revolution was a big change in France a long time ago. It happened when many people were unhappy with the king. They wanted to share power and be treated fairly. People marched in the streets and shouted for freedom. It changed how the country was run.
Frequency\n\nFrequency is how many times something happens in a set time. It is like counting how many times you clap your hands in one second. If you clap fast, the frequency is high. If you clap slow, the frequency is low. You can see frequency with waves in water. A wave has a top part called a crest. When many crests pass by a stick in the water in one second, that is a high frequency. Sound also has frequency. A high sound, like a bird chirp, has a high frequency. A low sound, like a big drum, has a low frequency.
Fresh\n\nFresh means something is new, clean, and nice. It can be food that just came from the farm, like a crunchy apple or a cold glass of milk. It can be air that feels cool and clean when you open a window. It can be clothes that just came out of the wash and smell good. When you eat fresh food, it tastes the best.
Freyja\n\nFreyja is a goddess from old stories. She is very pretty and kind. She rides in a cart pulled by two big cats. She has a shiny necklace and a coat made of bird feathers that lets her fly. She lives in a big hall in a field where she takes care of brave fighters who have died. She cries tears that turn into gold. People think of her when they feel love or when a new baby is born.
Friction\n\nFriction is a force that slows things down when they rub together. It happens when two things touch and move. It makes heat and sometimes sound. When you rub your hands fast, they get warm. That is friction. Car brakes use it to stop the car. Shoes use it so you do not slip on the floor. Even a suitcase rolling on the ground has a little bit of it.
Friday\n\nFriday is a day of the week. It comes after Thursday and before Saturday. For many people, it is the last day of school or work before the weekend. On Friday, children might feel happy because they can play more the next day. Some families have a special meal or watch a movie together on Friday night.
Fridge\n\nA fridge is a big cold box in the kitchen. It has a door that keeps the cold air inside. You find it in almost every home. It keeps food like milk, eggs, and fruit fresh and cold so they stay good to eat. Some fridges have a freezer part at the top or bottom that makes ice and keeps ice cream hard.
Friend\n\nA friend is a person you like to play with. It is someone who shares toys and laughs with you. You can find a friend at school, at the park, or in your neighborhood. A friend does fun things with you, like drawing or running. When you feel sad, a friend can give you a hug. A friend is kind and makes you happy.
Friendly\n\nFriendly means being nice and kind to others. It looks like a smile, a wave, or a helping hand. You can find friendly people at school, at the park, or at home. When someone is friendly, they share toys, say kind words, and make you feel happy. A friendly friend might give you a hug or ask you to play.
Friendship\n\nFriendship is a warm feeling between people who like each other. It is when two people enjoy being together and care about each other. You can find it at school, in your neighborhood, or at the park. Friends play together, share toys, and help when someone is sad. A friend might be the kid you sit next to at lunch or the one you swing with at recess.
Friesian horse\n\nA Friesian horse is a big, strong horse that is always black. It has a long, thick mane and tail, and soft hair around its feet. It comes from a place called the Netherlands. People ride it and use it to pull carts. You might see one in a parade or a movie.
Frigatebird\n\nA frigatebird is a big bird that lives near warm seas. It has long, pointy wings that stretch very wide. It can fly for many hours over the water without getting tired. It has a black body and a tail that splits into two points. The boy bird has a red pouch under its beak that puffs up like a balloon. It eats fish and sometimes takes food from other birds. You might see it flying high near a beach or an island.
Frog\n\nA frog is a small animal that can live in water and on land. It has smooth, wet skin, big back legs, and no tail. You can find it near ponds, lakes, or wet grass. It jumps very far and catches bugs with its long, sticky tongue. It makes a loud sound called a croak. A baby frog is called a tadpole. It lives in water and has a tail, but no legs. As it grows, it gets legs and loses its tail.
From\n\nFrom is a small word that tells us where something starts. It shows the place or person something comes from. You might say, "I got this cookie from Grandma." It can also tell us about time, like "from morning to night." When you see a gift with a tag that says "From Mom," you know who gave it to you.
Front\n\nFront is the part of something that faces you first. It is the side you see when you look straight at a thing. You find the front of a house where the door is. The front of a book has the cover and the title. When you line up, the person at the front is first. A car has a front where the driver sits and the headlights shine.
Frost\n\nFrost is a thin layer of ice that forms on things when it is very cold outside. It looks white and powdery, like tiny bits of sugar. You can find it on grass, car windows, and leaves early in the morning. It can hurt plants and make them turn brown. Farmers use warm glass houses called greenhouses to keep plants safe from it.
Frostbite\n\nFrostbite is when very cold hurts a part of your body. It can make skin turn white or gray and feel hard. It often happens to fingers, toes, ears, or your nose when you play outside in snow too long. If you see it, you need a grown-up to help warm it up slowly. Wearing warm gloves and boots helps keep it away.
Frown\n\nA frown is a face you make when you are sad or upset. It looks like the corners of your mouth go down. You can see it on a friend's face when they lose a toy. It shows that someone feels bad inside. When you see a frown, you can give a hug to help.
Fruit\n\nA fruit is a part of a plant that holds the seeds. It can be soft and sweet, like an apple or a banana. You can find it growing on trees or bushes in gardens and farms. People eat it as a snack or put it in meals because it tastes good and is good for the body. An apple is a fruit you might see in your lunch box.
Fruit preserves\n\nFruit preserves are sweet spreads made from fruit and sugar. They are cooked until thick and then put in glass jars. You can find them in a kitchen cupboard or at the grocery store. People spread them on bread, toast, or crackers for a yummy snack. Strawberry jam and orange marmalade are two kinds you might have tried.
Fry\n\nTo fry means to cook food in hot oil. It makes the food brown and crispy on the outside. You can fry an egg in a pan on the stove. People also fry potatoes to make french fries. The oil is very hot, so only grown-ups should do it. Fried food smells yummy and tastes crunchy.
Frying\n\nFrying is a way to cook food using hot oil or butter. It makes the outside of the food brown and crunchy. You can fry an egg in a pan on the stove. People also fry potatoes to make crispy french fries. Some foods are fried in a big pot with lots of oil, like doughnuts. You can see frying at home when mom or dad makes breakfast.
Fuel\n\nFuel is something we burn to make heat or power. It can be a black rock called coal, a brown liquid called oil, or a clear gas. We find some fuels deep under the ground. People use fuel to make cars go, to cook food, and to keep houses warm. When you see a campfire, the wood is a kind of fuel.
Full\n\nFull means something has no more room inside. It is like a cup with water all the way to the top. When your tummy feels tight after a big meal, it is full. A bus is full when every seat has a person in it. You cannot put more things in a full box.
Fully\n\nFully means all the way or as much as can be. It is a word that tells how something is done. When you fill a cup fully, no more water can fit inside. When you eat fully, your tummy feels all done and happy. You can also listen fully by using both ears and not talking. It is the opposite of partly or a little bit.
Fun\n\nFun is a happy feeling you get when you do something you like. It can be playing with toys, running outside, or laughing with friends. You find it at the park, at a birthday party, or when you hear a funny story. It makes you smile and feel good inside. A swing at the playground is one place you can have fun.
Function\n\nA function is like a little machine that does one job. It takes something in, works on it, and gives something back. You can use it many times without making a new one each time. For example, a toaster is like a function: you put bread in, it heats it up, and you get toast out.
Fundamental force\n\nA fundamental force is a push or a pull that makes things move. There are four big ones in the whole world. One is gravity, which pulls you down to the ground. Another is the force that makes magnets stick to the fridge. The other two are tiny and work deep inside tiny bits of stuff. They hold those bits together so everything does not fall apart. You cannot see them, but they are always there.
Funeral\n\nA funeral is a special time when people come together to say goodbye to someone who has died. It is a sad but important gathering. Friends and family meet in a quiet place like a church or a hall. They talk about the person, share stories, and sometimes sing songs. The body is often put in a big box called a coffin. After the funeral, the body may be put in the ground or turned into soft ashes. People cry and hug because they miss the person. They also smile when they remember happy times. A funeral helps everyone feel a little better together.
Fungus\n\nA fungus is a tiny living thing. It can be very small, like yeast, or big, like a mushroom. It does not have green parts, so it cannot make its own food from sunlight. Instead, it eats dead plants and old food. Some fungi live in the ground or on old trees. People use yeast to make bread soft and fluffy. A mushroom is a fungus that you can see in the woods or at the store.
Funny\n\nFunny is a feeling that makes you laugh. It can be a silly face, a wiggly dance, or a joke with a surprise ending. You find funny things in cartoons, at the playground, or when your pet does a trick. When something is funny, your mouth turns up and happy sounds come out. A clown with a big red nose is funny.
Fur\n\nFur is the soft hair that covers the body of many animals. It has two layers: a short, thick layer close to the skin and a longer, thinner layer on top. You can find it on cats, dogs, rabbits, and bears. It keeps the animal warm when it is cold outside. Some animals, like elephants, have very little fur because they are big and live in hot places. A woolly mammoth had thick fur long ago when it lived in icy lands. Animals that live in water, like whales, do not have much fur because it would get too wet. Instead, they have a thick layer of fat under their skin to stay warm.
Furniture\n\nFurniture is the big and small things in a house that people use every day. It can be made of wood, soft cloth, or hard metal. You find it in every room. A bed is for sleeping, a chair is for sitting, and a table is for eating or playing. A dresser has drawers to keep clothes tidy. Some furniture is plain, and some has pretty shapes or colors. It helps make a home cozy and nice to live in.
Fuse\n\nA fuse is a small safety helper inside wires and plugs. It stops too much power from going through. When too many things are plugged in, it gets hot and melts inside. This turns off the power so nothing gets hurt. After it melts, a grown-up puts in a new one to make things work again. You can find a fuse in the plug of a lamp or a TV.
Future\n\nThe future is the time that has not come yet. It is what happens after right now. When you wake up tomorrow, that is the future. No one knows for sure what it will bring, but people can guess and dream. Some stories in books and movies show what the future might look like, with flying cars or robots. You can think about the future when you plan what to play later today.
Futurism\n\nFuturism is a way of making art that started a long time ago. It loves things that are fast and new, like cars, planes, and big cities. The art shows things moving with bright colors and sharp shapes. Some people who made this art also wrote about it in little books called manifestos. Today, you can see its ideas in movies and cartoons that have speedy robots and flying cars.
Fuzzy\n\nFuzzy means something is soft and has tiny hairs or fluff on it. It feels nice when you touch it, like a warm blanket or a teddy bear. You can find fuzzy things all around you, like a peach with its soft skin or a kitten with its fluffy fur. Some clothes, like a cozy sweater, are fuzzy too. When you pet a fuzzy animal, it makes you feel happy and calm.
Gabon\n\nGabon is a country in Africa. It sits right on the equator, where it is very warm. Much of it is covered in thick green forests. Many people live in the big city called Libreville. It has big rivers and many caves deep under the ground. Long ago, people from France came to live there. Now it has its own flag and its own leaders. Some people there play football, and they are very good at it.
Gaborone\n\nGaborone is a big city in the country of Botswana. It is the most important city there because the people who run the country work in it. The city sits next to a river in the south part of the land. Many people live in it, and more come every year. It has a school for big kids, an airport for planes, and many houses. Long ago, it had a different name, but now people call it Gaborone.
Galago\n\nA galago is a tiny animal that comes out at night. It has big round eyes, soft fur, and a long tail. It lives in trees in warm parts of Africa. It jumps very far from branch to branch. It eats bugs, fruit, and tree sap. Some people call it a bushbaby because it looks like a little baby and lives in bushes.
Galaxy\n\nA galaxy is a huge group of stars. It has gas and dust too. Gravity holds it all together. It can be a spiral shape, like a pinwheel, or a round shape. Our Sun is one star in a galaxy called the Milky Way. At night, you can see a faint band of light across the sky. That is part of our galaxy.
Galileo\n\nGalileo was a man who lived a long time ago. He looked up at the sky with a tube that made far things look close. He saw that the Earth moves around the sun. He also saw moons near the big planet Jupiter. People remember him because he helped us learn about the stars.
Galileo Galilei\n\nGalileo Galilei was a man who lived a long time ago. He looked at the sky with a tube that made far things look close. He saw that the moon has bumps and that the sun has dark spots. He also found four little lights moving around the big planet Jupiter. He said the Earth moves around the sun, not the other way. Many people did not believe him at first, but now we know he was right.
Galley\n\nA galley is a long, skinny boat. It moves when people pull on big sticks called oars that go into the water. Long ago, people used it to fight on the sea. It had a sharp front to bump into other boats. Some had many oars on each side, one row above the other. Today, you can see a galley in a picture book about old ships.
Gallon\n\nA gallon is a way to measure how much liquid you have. It is a big container, like a large milk jug. In some places, people use it to buy gas for their car. You might see a gallon of milk or water at the store. It holds a lot of liquid, more than a cup or a bottle.
Galpagos Islands\n\nThe Galpagos Islands are a group of small lands in the big blue ocean. They are far away from other lands, near a country called Ecuador. The islands were made by hot rocks from inside the Earth, called volcanoes. Some of these hot rocks still come out today. Many special animals live there, like big slow turtles with hard shells, funny birds with blue feet, and little penguins that swim in the water. These animals are not found anywhere else in the world. People visit the islands to see the animals and the pretty beaches. Only a few of the islands have people living on them, and most of the land is kept safe as a park.
Gamble\n\nA gamble is when you try to win something by luck. It is like picking a card and hoping it is the right one. You might lose what you gave, like a toy or a coin. People sometimes do it with cards or spinning wheels. It is not a sure way to get things, so it can make you sad if you lose.
Game\n\nA game is something you do for fun. It has rules that tell you what you can and cannot do. You can play a game alone or with friends. Some games use a board and pieces, like checkers. Other games use a ball, like soccer. You can also play games on a screen, like a phone or a computer. When you play hide-and-seek, that is a game too. Games make you laugh and think.
Game show\n\nA game show is a fun TV program where people play a game. It has a host who talks and asks questions. Players try to win points, money, or big prizes like a trip or a new car. Some shows test what you know, and some have spinning wheels or buzzers. You can watch it at home with your family and shout out answers. One you might know is "Wheel of Fortune," where a big wheel spins and people guess letters.
Gandhi\n\nGandhi was a man who helped his country. He lived in a land called India. He wore simple white clothes and round glasses. He did not fight with fists or swords. He used kind words and long walks to make things fair. Many people loved him and called him a great soul.
Ganesha\n\nGanesha is a special god with an elephant head. He has a big round belly, four arms, and big ears. People in India pray to him at home and in temples. They ask him for good luck and to help them when things are hard. He is the son of a god and a goddess. Many people love him because he is kind and wise.
Gang\n\nA gang is a group of people who stay together and do things as a team. They often wear the same colors or signs so others know who they are. You might see them in a big city, walking or standing on a street corner. Sometimes a gang does bad things, like fighting or taking things that are not theirs. But the word can also mean a group of friends who play together, like a little gang of kids at the park.
Ganges\n\nThe Ganges is a very long river in India. It starts high up in cold, snowy mountains and flows down to a big sea. Many people live near it and use its water to grow food like rice and wheat. It is also a holy river. People believe its water is special and can make them clean inside. They come from far away to take a bath in it. Sometimes the water gets dirty, and people are working to keep it clean.
Ganymede (moon)\n\nGanymede is a big moon that goes around the planet Jupiter. It is the biggest moon in our whole Solar System. It is even bigger than the planet Mercury, but it is much lighter. It is made of rock and ice. Deep inside, it has a hot, liquid center and a hidden ocean of water. The ocean may have more water than all of Earth’s oceans put together. Its outside has dark spots and light lines. The dark spots are very old and have many round dents from rocks hitting it long ago. The light parts have long grooves and ridges. It is the only moon that has its own magnetic field, like a big invisible bubble around it.
Gap\n\nA gap is an empty space between two things. It can be a little hole or a big open spot. You might see a gap between your two front teeth when you smile. A gap can also be the space under a door where light comes through. When you build with blocks, a gap is the space left when one block is missing.
Garage\n\nA garage is a room or a building where people keep cars. It has a big door that goes up and down so a car can drive in and out. Some garages are stuck to the side of a house, and some stand all by themselves. In a big city, you might see a tall garage with many floors where lots of cars can park. Another kind of garage is a place where people fix broken cars and make them run again.
Garden\n\nA garden is a piece of land where people grow flowers, trees, and other plants. It can be small, like in a backyard, or big, like in a park. You can find a garden outside a house, in a city, or even inside a big building with a glass roof. People take care of a garden by giving the plants water and pulling out weeds. Some gardens have pretty paths, seats, and little ponds with fish. A garden is a nice place to sit, play, or look at colorful flowers.
Gardenia\n\nA gardenia is a plant with pretty white flowers. It has shiny dark green leaves that feel thick and smooth. It grows in warm places where the air feels wet. People love it because the flowers smell very sweet and nice. You might see one in a garden or in a pot by a sunny window. It can be hard to keep happy because it needs lots of water in the air.
Gardening\n\nGardening is when people grow plants like flowers, trees, and food. It can happen outside in the dirt, in pots on a porch, or even inside a house. People use tools like a small shovel, a watering can, and a hose to help the plants. Some gardens are big and pretty, like in a park, and some are tiny, like a box on a windowsill. A gardener is a person who takes care of the plants every day.
Garlic\n\nGarlic is a plant that people eat. It has a round white bulb made of small pieces called cloves. It grows in the ground and has long green leaves. People use it in cooking to make food taste strong and yummy. You might see garlic in the kitchen or at the store. Some people also use it to help when they have a cold.
Garter snake\n\nA garter snake is a small, thin snake. It has a long body with a stripe down its back. The stripe can be yellow, white, or another color. It lives in many places like backyards, woods, and near water. It hides under leaves, rocks, and sticks. It eats small animals like bugs, worms, and tiny fish. It is not dangerous to people. If it gets scared, it might make a stinky smell or give a tiny bite that does not hurt much.
Gas\n\nA gas is a kind of stuff that is all around us. It is like air. You cannot see it, but you can feel it when the wind blows. It has no shape of its own. It spreads out to fill any space, like a balloon. When you blow up a balloon, you put gas inside. The gas pushes on the balloon to make it big. Some gases have a smell, like the yucky smell from a car. The air we breathe is a mix of gases. One gas in air helps us live. It is called oxygen. Another gas in air makes plants grow. It is called carbon dioxide. When you boil water, you see steam. Steam is water that turned into a gas. When the steam hits a cold lid, it turns back into tiny water drops. That is how a gas can change.
Gas station\n\nA gas station is a place where cars get a drink. It has big machines called pumps that give cars special liquid to make them go. You see it next to roads when you ride in a car with your family. A grown-up stops the car, opens a little door, and puts a nozzle inside. The pump makes a humming sound while the car fills up. Many gas stations also have a small shop where you can buy snacks or a cold drink. Some even have a big machine that washes the car with water and soap.
Gasoline\n\nGasoline is a clear liquid that cars use to go. It is made from oil found deep under the ground. People get it at a gas station, where a pump puts it into the car. It burns inside the car's engine to make it move. It smells strong and can catch fire very easily, so you must never play with it. It is also used in lawn mowers and small boats.
Gate\n\nA gate is a door in a fence or a wall. It is made of wood or metal and can open and close. You find it outside a house, in a garden, or at a farm. It lets people and cars go in and out. When it is closed, it keeps animals and small children safe inside.
Gaur\n\nA gaur is a big wild cow. It has a huge body with strong legs and two curved horns on its head. It lives in forests in parts of Asia. It eats grass and leaves all day. A baby gaur can walk just a few minutes after it is born. The mom keeps the baby safe until they go back to the group.
Gautama Buddha\n\nGautama Buddha was a man who lived a very long time ago. He was a prince when he was young. He left his big house to find out why people feel sad and hurt. He sat under a tree and thought very hard until he understood. After that, he taught people how to be kind and calm. Many people listen to his words even today.
Gaze\n\nA gaze is when you look at something for a long time without moving your eyes away. It is a soft, steady look. You might gaze at a pretty flower, a bright star, or a picture you love. When you gaze, you are not just looking fast—you stay still and watch. A gaze can show that you are thinking or feeling calm.
Gazelle\n\nA gazelle is a fast animal that looks like a small deer. It has long, thin legs, a light brown body, and a white belly. It lives in hot, grassy places in Africa and parts of Asia. It eats grass and leaves. It can run very fast to get away from big cats like lions. When it runs, it sometimes jumps high in the air with all four legs off the ground. Many gazelles stay together in a big group called a herd.
Gear\n\nA gear is a round wheel with little bumps on the edge. It looks like a circle with teeth all around it. You can find it inside toys, clocks, and bikes. When one gear turns, it makes another gear turn too. It helps machines move and do work. For example, when you pedal a bike, gears help the wheels spin.
Gecko\n\nA gecko is a small lizard with soft skin. It has four short legs, a long tail, and big eyes with no eyelids. It lives in warm places, like houses, trees, and walls. It comes out at night to eat bugs like flies and mosquitoes. It can walk up walls and even on the ceiling because its feet have tiny sticky pads. It makes a funny sound, like a chirp or a squeak. Some people call it a gecko because that is what its sound is like. If a cat grabs its tail, it can drop the tail and grow a new one later.
Gel\n\nA gel is a soft, wiggly thing. It feels wet and squishy, like jelly. You can find it in a jar of jam or in a bowl of dessert. It holds its shape but shakes when you touch it. Some gels are sweet and you can eat them. Other gels are used in shoes or hair to make things soft.
Gender\n\nGender is a word that helps us talk about how people feel and show who they are. It is not the same as the body a person is born with. Some people feel like a boy, some feel like a girl, and some feel like both or neither. You can see gender in the clothes people wear, the toys they like, or the way they play. For example, a child might say, "I am a boy," even if people thought they were a girl when they were born. Everyone gets to say their own gender when they are ready.
Gene\n\nA gene is a tiny set of instructions inside your body. It tells your body how to grow and what to look like. It decides if your hair is curly or straight, and if your eyes are blue or brown. You get your genes from your mom and dad. They are so small you cannot see them, but they are in every part of you.
Genealogy\n\nGenealogy is learning about your family from long ago. It is like a big story about your mom, dad, grandma, grandpa, and the people who came before them. Some people draw a family tree to show how everyone is connected. You can find old photos, letters, and stories that tell you where your family lived and what they did. It helps you know who you are and where you come from.
Generation\n\nA generation is a group of people born around the same time. In a family, it means all the kids on the same step of the family tree. You, your brothers, your sisters, and your cousins are all in one generation. Your mom and dad are in the generation before you. Your grandma and grandpa are in the generation before them. Each new generation grows up and has kids of their own.
Genetics\n\nGenetics is the study of how parents pass things to their children. It looks at tiny parts inside our bodies called genes. Genes are like little notes that tell our bodies how to grow. They decide if you have blue eyes or brown eyes, or if your hair is straight or curly. You get half your genes from your mom and half from your dad. That is why you may look a little like both of them.
Geneva\n\nGeneva is a big city in a country called Switzerland. It sits next to a very large lake with blue water. Many people from all over the world come to talk and make important choices there. You can see tall mountains with snow on top from the city. A big river flows through it, and boats float on the lake.
Genghis\n\nGenghis was a strong leader from long ago. He lived in a big land with wide, open fields. He rode a horse and led many people across the land. He is known for bringing many groups together under one rule.
Genghis Khan\n\nGenghis Khan was a leader from long ago. He brought many people together under one big group. He rode a horse and was very strong. People remember him as a great ruler.
Genie\n\nA genie is a make-believe being from old stories. It is said to be made of fire or smoke and can turn itself so people cannot see it. In tales, it often lives inside an old lamp or a bottle. When someone rubs the lamp, it comes out and can do magic. It may grant wishes, like giving you a toy or a sweet. But in some stories, it can be tricky, so you must be careful what you wish for.
Genocide\n\nGenocide is when a group of people is hurt very badly on purpose. It happens when one group wants to get rid of another group. They may hurt them, take their homes, or stop them from having children. It is very wrong and makes many people sad. We learn about it so we can be kind and stop it from happening again.
Gentle\n\nGentle means soft and kind. It is a way of touching or talking that does not hurt. A gentle touch feels light, like a feather. When you pet a small animal, you use gentle hands. A gentle voice is quiet and calm. It makes people feel safe and happy.
Gently\n\nGently means doing something in a soft and careful way. It is how you touch a baby or a small pet so you do not hurt them. You can speak gently by using a quiet, kind voice. When you hold a flower, you hold it gently so the petals do not fall off. It is the opposite of being rough or fast.
Geography\n\nGeography is the study of the Earth and the people, animals, and plants that live on it. It looks at big things like mountains, rivers, oceans, and deserts. It also looks at where people live and how they use the land. A person who studies geography is called a geographer. They use maps to show where things are. Maps can show roads, countries, or even the whole world. Geography helps us understand why some places are hot and some are cold, and why people in different places live in different ways.
Geological history of Earth\n\nEarth's geological history is the long, long story of our planet. It is split into very big chunks of time, like chapters in a book. Scientists look at rocks and the layers inside them to learn this story. Deep down, old rocks tell about times long ago. Higher up, newer rocks tell about times closer to today. This is how we know Earth is very, very old.
Geology\n\nGeology is the study of the Earth and what it is made of. It looks at rocks, dirt, and how the ground changes. Some people who study geology are called geologists. They look at rocks to learn about the past. They also study big things like mountains, volcanoes, and earthquakes. Rocks come in three main kinds: some are made from hot melted rock that cools down, some are made from tiny bits of sand and mud pressed together, and some are changed by heat and squeezing. Soil is the top layer of the ground. It is made of tiny pieces of rock and old leaves. Plants grow in soil. Geologists help us understand the Earth under our feet.
Geometer moth\n\nA geometer moth is a kind of moth. It has wide wings that it holds flat so you can see both pairs. Its body is thin, and it flies mostly at night. The baby, called a caterpillar, moves in a funny way. It pulls its back end up to its front, then stretches forward, like it is measuring the ground. Some people call it an inchworm. You might see one on a leaf or a tree branch.
Geometry\n\nGeometry is a way of looking at shapes and sizes. It helps us see how long, how wide, and how tall things are. You can find it in flat shapes like squares, circles, and triangles. You can also find it in solid shapes like balls, boxes, and cans. People use it to build houses, draw maps, and make toys. A pizza is a circle, and a door is a rectangle. That is geometry.
George\n\nGeorge is a name for a boy or a man. It is a short, friendly name that many people have. You might meet a George at school, in a storybook, or on TV. A George can be tall or short, with any color hair. He likes to play, laugh, and be with friends, just like you.
George Washington\n\nGeorge Washington was a man who helped start the United States. He was the very first president. He wore a white wig and a long coat. You can see his face on the one-dollar bill. People remember him as a brave leader.
Georgia (country)\n\nGeorgia is a country far away. It sits next to a big sea called the Black Sea. It has many tall mountains with snow on top. The biggest city is Tbilisi, where many people live. People there speak a language called Georgian. They grow grapes and make a sweet drink from them. They also sing songs with many voices at once. The flag has a big red cross and four small red crosses on a white cloth.
Geothermal energy\n\nGeothermal energy is heat that comes from deep inside the Earth. It is not heat from the Sun, but heat that lives under the ground. The Earth is very hot at its center, and that heat moves up toward the top. Sometimes it comes out as hot water in a spring or as steam that shoots up from the ground. People can use it to warm houses and buildings. In some places, it is used to make electricity. It is a clean kind of energy because it does not make dirty smoke.
Germ\n\nA germ is a tiny living thing that is too small to see with your eyes. It can get inside your body and make you feel sick. Germs are everywhere — on your hands, on toys, and on tables. Washing your hands with soap and water helps keep them away. When you cover your mouth when you cough, you stop germs from flying into the air.
German\n\nGerman is a way of talking and writing. It is used by many people in a country called Germany. You can also hear it in some other places nearby. If you meet someone who says "Hallo" instead of "Hello," they might be speaking German. Some storybooks and songs are written in it too.
German language\n\nGerman is a way of talking and writing that many people use. It sounds a little like English, but the words go in a different order. You can hear it in Germany, Austria, and parts of Switzerland. When people write it, they make every name word start with a big letter. Some words are very long because they put small words together to make one big word.
German literature\n\nGerman literature is all the stories, poems, and books written in the German language. It is made by people from Germany and other places where German is spoken. Some stories are very old, like fairy tales about magic and animals. Other stories are new and tell about life today. You might know a German story like "Hansel and Gretel" or "Cinderella."
Germanic languages\n\nGermanic languages are a big family of ways people talk. They all started from one very old way of talking long ago in a cold place up north. Today, many people use them every day. English is one of them. You hear it when your friend says hello. Other ones are German and Dutch. They share many words that sound a little bit alike.
Germany\n\nGermany is a country in Europe. It is a big piece of land with many trees, rivers, and mountains. You can find it on a map next to other countries like France and Poland. Many people live there and speak a language called German. They build cars, make yummy bread, and have big parties with music and lights. A long time ago, it was split into two parts, but now it is one country again.
Get\n\nGet means to take something or bring it to you. When you get a toy, you hold it in your hands. You can get a hug from Mom or Dad. You can get a cookie after dinner. When you get bigger, you grow tall. You can get a new friend at the park. Getting something makes you happy.
Geyser\n\nA geyser is a hot spring that shoots water and steam high into the air. It looks like a hole in the ground with water bubbling up. You can find it in places with hot rocks under the ground, like Yellowstone Park. When the water gets very hot, it pushes up and bursts out. After it shoots, it rests and then shoots again. Some geysers shoot every few minutes, and some wait a long time.
Ghana\n\nGhana is a country in Africa. It is near the big blue ocean and has warm weather all year. The land has flat places, small hills, and a very big lake called Lake Volta. Many people in Ghana grow cocoa beans to make chocolate. They also dig for gold and shiny diamonds. Children there go to school for six years. The most loved game is soccer, and the team is called the Black Stars.
Ghost\n\nA ghost is something people think is the spirit of a dead person. It is often said to look like a see-through shape or a misty cloud. Some people say they feel cold when a ghost is near. Many stories show ghosts in old, empty houses. People dress up as ghosts for Halloween with a white sheet.
Giant\n\nA giant is a huge person from old stories. It is much, much bigger than a grown-up. It looks like a person but is as tall as a tree. You find giants in fairy tales and books. They can be strong and sometimes a little scary. One story has a giant who lives at the top of a beanstalk.
Giant panda\n\nA giant panda is a big, soft bear. It has black and white fur. Its ears, eye spots, legs, and shoulders are black. The rest of its body is white. It lives in mountain forests in China. It eats bamboo almost all day long. It uses a special wrist bone like a thumb to hold the bamboo. A baby panda is tiny and stays with its mom for a long time. You can see a giant panda in some big zoos.
Giant planet\n\nA giant planet is a very big ball in space, much bigger than Earth. It is made mostly of soft, light stuff like air and water, not hard rock. There are four giant planets near our Sun: Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. Jupiter and Saturn are mostly air, and they have thick clouds. Uranus and Neptune are mostly icy water, and they look blue-green. You can see some of them at night as bright dots in the sky.
Giant star\n\nA giant star is a huge, bright ball of hot gas in the sky. It looks like a very big, shiny dot at night. It is much bigger and brighter than our Sun. It does not live as long as smaller stars. Some giant stars are red, some are yellow, and some are blue. You can see them twinkling far away in the dark sky.
Giant tortoise\n\nA giant tortoise is a very big turtle that lives on land. It has a hard, round shell on its back and four thick legs. It can be as long as a grown-up is tall. It lives on warm islands far away in the ocean. It eats grass and leaves and moves very slowly. It can live for more than 100 years, which is older than any grandma or grandpa. A long time ago, people took too many of them for food, so now people keep them safe.
Gibbon\n\nA gibbon is a kind of ape that lives in trees. It has very long arms and no tail. It swings from branch to branch in the forest, moving fast and far. It lives in warm, thick forests far away in Asia. It eats leaves, flowers, fruit, and bugs. In the morning, it sings loud songs that can be heard from very far. These songs help it talk to its family and tell other gibbons to stay away. A gibbon can be black or light brown. It walks on two feet on the ground with its arms held up high.
Gift\n\nA gift is a thing you give to someone to make them happy. It is often wrapped in pretty paper with a bow on top. You can find gifts at a birthday party or under a tree on a holiday. People give gifts to show love or to say thank you. A toy, a book, or a drawing you made can all be gifts.
Gila monster\n\nA Gila monster is a big, slow lizard that lives in the desert. It has bumpy skin that looks like tiny beads. Its skin is black with pink, orange, and yellow spots. It hides under rocks and comes out to find food. It eats small animals like baby mice and bird eggs. When it bites, it holds on tight and puts a little poison in the bite. The poison does not hurt people very much. It can keep extra food in its fat tail. Some medicine for sick people was made from its spit.
Gill\n\nA gill is a body part that helps an animal breathe under water. It looks like soft, feathery lines or tiny leaves. Fish have gills on the sides of their heads, hidden under a flap. Sharks have slits on their necks that are gills. Baby frogs and salamanders have gills that stick out like little branches. The gill takes air from the water so the animal can stay under. Some bugs that live in water have a special patch of hairs that works like a gill. You can see gills on a fish at the pet store or in a pond.
Ginger\n\nGinger is a plant with a thick root that people use in food. The root looks bumpy and brown on the outside, but inside it is yellow and smells strong. You can find it in the kitchen or at the store. People cut it into tiny pieces and put it in cookies, tea, or soup to make the taste warm and a little spicy. Sometimes the word ginger also means a red-brown color, like the hair of some children.
Ginkgo\n\nA ginkgo is a kind of tree. It has leaves that look like little fans. The leaves turn bright yellow in fall. You can find it in parks and on streets in many places. People plant it because it is strong and pretty. It first grew in China a long, long time ago.
Ginseng\n\nGinseng is a plant with a thick, bumpy root that grows under the ground. It has green leaves and small red berries. It grows in cool, shady places in parts of Asia. People dig up the root and use it to make tea or medicine. Some people say it helps them feel strong and healthy.
Giraffe\n\nA giraffe is a very tall animal with a long neck and long legs. It has a light tan coat with big brown spots, and no two giraffes have the same spots. It lives in Africa on wide, grassy lands with some trees. It eats leaves from tall trees using its long, dark tongue to pull them off. A baby giraffe is called a calf and can stand up soon after it is born.
Girl\n\nA girl is a young person who will grow up to be a woman. She is a child or a teenager. She often has longer hair than a boy, but not always. She may wear a dress, a skirt, or pants. You can see girls at school, at the park, or at home with their family. A girl likes to play, draw, and make friends.
Girlfriend\n\nA girlfriend is a girl who is a special friend. She is someone you like to spend time with, talk to, and play with. You might hold hands or give each other hugs. She can be someone you see at school, at the park, or at a friend's house. A girlfriend makes you feel happy and you make her feel happy too.
Gita\n\nGita is a very old and important book from India. It is a story told as a talk between a prince and his friend. People read it to learn about being kind, brave, and doing the right thing. Many families keep a copy at home and read a little bit every day. It is often small and has a bright cover.
Give\n\nTo give is to let someone have something of yours. It can be a toy, a hug, or a snack. When you give, you hold it out and the other person takes it. You can give a gift on a birthday. Giving makes people feel happy and kind.
Giza\n\nGiza is a big city in Egypt. It sits next to a long river called the Nile. In Giza, you can see very old, giant stone triangles called pyramids. These pyramids are so big that people from all over the world come to look at them. Long ago, kings were buried inside the pyramids. Near the pyramids, there is a huge statue of a lion with a person's head. It is called the Sphinx. Today, many people live in Giza, and it is a busy place with houses and streets.
Glacier\n\nA glacier is a huge, thick river of ice. It looks like a giant frozen blanket on the land. You find it in very cold places, like tall mountains or near the North and South Poles. It moves very, very slowly, sliding downhill like a slow-motion river. When it moves, it can scrape the ground and carry big rocks with it. A glacier is often a pretty blue color because the ice is so thick. It holds lots of fresh water, like a giant ice cube. Some glaciers are so big you can walk on them, but you must be very careful.
Glad\n\nGlad is a happy feeling. It is the warm, light feeling you get when something good happens. You might feel glad when you see a friend, get a hug, or eat a yummy snack. It makes you smile and want to jump up and down. When you are glad, your heart feels full and bright.
Gladiator\n\nA gladiator was a fighter in old Rome. He fought other men or big wild animals in a big round place called an arena. Many people came to watch him fight. He used a sword, a shield, or a pointy stick. Most gladiators were not free. A few became famous and got lots of cheers.
Gladiolus\n\nGladiolus is a tall plant with big, bright flowers. It grows from a round, brown bulb under the ground. Its leaves are long and pointy, like a green sword. You can find it in gardens or in a vase at home. People plant it in spring, and it blooms in summer. The flowers can be pink, red, orange, yellow, or white. It makes a garden look very pretty.
Gland\n\nA gland is a tiny part inside your body that makes special juices. It looks like a small soft lump. You can find it under your skin, in your tummy, and in other places inside you. It sends out things your body needs, like water for your eyes or spit for your mouth. When you cry, a gland near your eye makes tears. When you eat, a gland in your mouth makes spit to help you swallow.
Glasgow\n\nGlasgow is a big city in Scotland. It sits next to a wide river called the Clyde. Many people live there, and it has tall buildings, shops, and parks. You can see big trains and planes that take people to other places. In the city, people play football, and two teams called Celtic and Rangers are very famous. The weather is often wet and gray, but it can get sunny later in the day.
Glass\n\nGlass is a hard, see-through thing. It can be flat like a window or round like a bottle. You find it in houses, cars, and schools. People use it to look through and to hold water or juice. A drinking cup is made of glass.
Glasses\n\nGlasses are a thing you wear on your face to help you see better. They have two clear pieces called lenses that sit in front of your eyes. The lenses are held in a frame that rests on your nose and hooks behind your ears. You can find glasses in a store where a doctor checks your eyes. People use them to read books, watch TV, or look at things far away. Some kids wear glasses at school, and some grown-ups wear them too.
Glider\n\nA glider is a flying thing with no engine. It has long, flat wings and a small body with seats for the pilot. You can see it in the sky on a sunny day, moving very quietly. A pilot sits inside and uses a stick to turn and go up or down. It cannot go up by itself, so a plane with an engine pulls it up first. Some gliders are so light that one person can carry it.
Global Positioning System\n\nA Global Positioning System is a tool that tells you where you are. It uses signals from far-away things in the sky called satellites. You can find it inside a phone, a car, or a watch. It shows a map and a dot that moves when you move. It helps people find the way to a new place without getting lost.
Globalization\n\nGlobalization is how people and places all over the world become more connected. It means things like toys, food, and clothes can travel from one country to another. You might see a shirt made far away in a store near your home. People also share ideas, music, and games across the world. Sometimes it helps people get new things, but it can also make small local shops close.
Globe\n\nA globe is a round ball that shows the whole Earth. It is like a map, but it is not flat. You can spin it around with your hand. It shows big blue oceans and colorful lands. You can find it in a classroom or a library. A teacher uses it to show where countries are. Some globes even show mountains and rivers. It helps you see how the Earth looks from space.
Glove\n\nA glove is something you put on your hand. It covers all five fingers and keeps them safe. Some gloves are thick and soft to keep hands warm in the cold. Others are thin and rubbery to keep hands clean. You can see gloves in winter when it snows. You also see them on a doctor or a baseball player. A mitten is like a glove but it holds four fingers together in one big pocket.
Glow\n\nGlow is a soft, warm light that comes from something. It can look like a gentle shine in the dark. You might see it from a nightlight in your room, a firefly at night, or the moon in the sky. Some things glow without being hot, like a glow stick when you bend it. It helps you see a little bit when it is dark.
Glue\n\nGlue is a sticky liquid that holds things together. It looks white or clear and feels wet at first. You can find it at school, at home, or in a craft box. People use it to stick paper, wood, or other light things. When it dries, it becomes hard and clear, and the pieces stay joined. A child might use it to make a paper collage or fix a broken toy.
Go\n\nGo is a board game for two people. It has a flat board with many lines that cross, and small round pieces called stones. One player uses black stones, and the other uses white stones. They take turns putting one stone on the board. The goal is to make a big space that belongs to you. It is a very old game that people still play today.
Go (board game)\n\nGo is a board game for two people. It has a flat board with many crossing lines. Players take turns putting down small round pieces called stones. One player uses black stones, and the other uses white stones. The goal is to use your stones to surround empty spaces on the board. You can also capture the other player’s stones by surrounding them. The game ends when both players do not want to move anymore. Then you count the spaces and captured stones to see who wins. Go is very old and was first played in China. Today, people play it all over the world, and you can even play it on a computer.
Goal\n\nA goal is something you want to do or get. It is like a finish line you run toward. You can have a small goal, like tying your shoes all by yourself. You can have a big goal, like learning to ride a bike. When you reach a goal, you feel proud and happy. People set goals to help them try hard and not give up.
Goat\n\nA goat is an animal with four legs and two horns on its head. It has a short tail and a coat of hair that can be white, black, brown, or spotted. You can find it on a farm or in a field, eating grass and leaves. It gives milk that people drink and turn into cheese. A baby goat is called a kid, and it likes to jump and play.
Gobi Desert\n\nThe Gobi Desert is a big, dry place with lots of sand and rocks. It is in two countries called Mongolia and China. It is very hot in the day and very cold at night. Not many plants grow there, but some small bushes and grass can live. Some animals call it home, like camels with two humps, wild donkeys, and big cats with spots. The wind can blow hard and make big dust clouds.
God\n\nGod is a special being that many people believe in. It is not a person you can see or touch. Some people think it made the whole world and everything in it. Many people talk to it when they pray. They believe it listens and cares about them. Different people call it by different names, like God, Allah, or Yahweh.
Godavari River\n\nThe Godavari River is a very long river in India. It starts in a place with hills and flows all the way to the big sea. Many people visit it because they think the water is special and can wash away bad things. Every twelve years, a big happy fair happens next to it. Long ago, people walked along its many ends to ask for babies.
Gold\n\nGold is a shiny yellow metal. It is very soft and heavy. People find it deep under the ground or in rivers. They use it to make pretty rings, necklaces, and coins. A gold coin is bright and does not get rusty. Long ago, people used gold as money. Today, you can see gold in a jewelry shop or on a winner's medal at a race.
Golden\n\nGolden means something looks like the color of gold. It is a bright, shiny yellow. You can see it on a ring, a necklace, or a shiny coin. Sometimes the sun looks golden when it goes down at night. A crown in a storybook is often golden. It feels warm and happy to look at.
Golden eagle\n\nA golden eagle is a big, strong bird that flies high in the sky. It has wide wings, a sharp hooked beak, and big feet with strong claws. It lives in wild places like mountains and open lands far from many people. It hunts small animals like rabbits and squirrels for food. It can be seen in parts of North America, Europe, and Asia. Some people call it the king of birds because it is so big and fast.
Golden Gate Bridge\n\nThe Golden Gate Bridge is a very long bridge that goes over water. It is painted a bright red-orange color. You can find it in California, where it connects two pieces of land. Cars, bikes, and people on foot can cross it. It has two tall towers and big ropes that hold it up. Many people visit it to look at the pretty water and hills.
Golden Rule\n\nThe Golden Rule is a simple rule about being kind. It says: treat other people the way you want them to treat you. If you want your friend to share a toy, you should share your toy too. If you want a hug when you are sad, give a hug when someone else is sad. Many people all over the world follow this rule. It helps everyone get along and feel happy.
Golden Temple\n\nThe Golden Temple is a very special holy place. It is a big, beautiful building that shines with gold on top. It sits in a city called Amritsar, in India. Around it is a big pool of clean water. People come from far away to pray and feel close to God. Inside, they sit quietly and listen to holy songs. Everyone can come in, no matter who they are. There is also a big kitchen that gives free warm food to all the visitors every day.
Goldfish\n\nA goldfish is a small fish that people keep as a pet. It has shiny scales and a tail that helps it swim. You can see it in a fish tank or a pond at home. It swims around and looks for food. Many goldfish are orange or gold, but some are black or have fancy tails. It can learn to know when it is feeding time.
Golf\n\nGolf is a game you play outside on a big field of grass. It uses a small white ball and a long stick called a club. You hit the ball with the club to make it roll into a small hole in the ground. The field has many holes, and you walk from one to the next. You try to use as few hits as possible. The person who gets the ball in all the holes with the fewest hits wins. You can play it with friends or family on a sunny day.
Good\n\nGood means something is nice, happy, or right. It is the opposite of bad. When you share your toy, that is good. When you eat your vegetables, that is good for your body. A sunny day feels good. A hug from mom feels good. People try to be good by helping and being kind.
Good And Evil\n\nGood and evil are two opposite ways of acting. Good means being kind, sharing toys, and helping a friend who is sad. Evil means hurting others on purpose, like pushing or saying mean words. You can see good when someone gives a hug or shares a snack. You can see evil when someone breaks a toy that is not theirs. In stories, good heroes try to save the day, and evil villains try to cause trouble. Everyone can choose to do good things.
Goodbye\n\nGoodbye is a word you say when you leave someone. It means you are going away for a little while or a long time. You can wave your hand and smile when you say it. People say goodbye at the door, at school, or on the phone. It is a nice way to end a talk before you go.
Goodnight\n\nGoodnight is a word you say when it is time to sleep. You say it to your mom, dad, or a friend before you close your eyes. It means "I hope you have a nice sleep." Sometimes you say it when you turn off the light. It is a kind way to end the day.
Goose\n\nA goose is a big water bird with a long neck. It has webbed feet, a flat beak, and soft feathers. You can see it at a pond, a lake, or a farm. It swims in the water and walks on land. It makes a loud honking sound. In the sky, it flies with other geese in a V shape. A baby goose is called a gosling.
Gorilla\n\nA gorilla is a big, strong animal that lives in warm, rainy forests. It has black hair all over its body, a wide chest, and long arms. It walks on its feet and the knuckles of its hands. It lives in Africa with its family group. It eats leaves, vines, and bamboo shoots most of the day. Sometimes it also eats ants or termites. At night, it makes a soft bed of leaves and branches on the ground to sleep in. A baby gorilla holds onto its mother for a long time. An older male gorilla has silver hair on its back and is called a silverback. You can see a gorilla in a zoo or in a picture book about animals.
Gothic art\n\nGothic art is a way of making pictures and statues from a long time ago. It started in France many hundreds of years back. You can see it in big old churches with tall windows. The windows have colored glass that glows when the sun shines through. Artists painted stories from the Bible and made statues of kind-looking mothers with babies. They also painted people from everyday life, like workers and families. Some old books have tiny painted pictures in this style. It looks a little different from art made later, with more gold and soft faces.
Gothic cathedrals\n\nA Gothic cathedral is a very big, old church. It has tall walls and pointy tops that reach high into the sky. You can find it in many old cities in Europe. Long ago, people built it to pray and sing songs. It has big windows with colored glass that let in pretty light. Some have stone arms on the sides that help hold the walls up. A famous one is Notre-Dame in Paris.
Government\n\nA government is a group of people who make rules for a place. It decides what people can and cannot do. You find it in every country, like where you live. It helps keep people safe and builds things like schools and roads. For example, the people in a big building in your town may work for the government.
Gown\n\nA gown is a long, soft dress. It goes from the shoulders all the way down to the feet. People wear it for very special times, like a big party or a wedding. A bride often wears a white gown on her wedding day. A doctor or a nurse may wear a short gown at work to stay clean. Some gowns have pretty flowers or shiny bits on them.
Grab\n\nGrab means to take hold of something fast with your hand. It is a quick move, like when you catch a ball before it falls. You can grab a toy, a cookie, or a friend's hand. When you grab something, you close your fingers around it tight. You might grab a blanket when you are cold. Sometimes you grab a grown-up's hand to cross the street safely.
Grade\n\nA grade is a mark that shows how well you did on school work. It can be a letter like A, B, or C, or a number like 1, 2, or 3. You see it on your paper after your teacher looks at it. It tells you and your family if you did a good job or if you need more practice. A happy face sticker can also be a grade for little kids.
Graffiti\n\nGraffiti is a drawing or writing on a wall or train in a public place. It is often made with paint from a can that sprays color. Sometimes it is just a name or a short word. Other times it is a big, bright picture with many colors. You can see it on city walls, bridges, or old train cars. Some people paint it without asking, and that is against the rules. But some towns have special walls where anyone can paint, and that is okay.
Grain\n\nA grain is a tiny, hard seed that grows on a plant. It is very small and can be brown, yellow, or white. You can find it in fields where farmers grow it in big rows. People pick it and use it to make food like bread, cereal, and pasta. It is good for your body and gives you energy to run and play.
Gram\n\nA gram is a tiny way to measure how heavy something is. It is very light. A paper clip weighs about one gram. You find grams on food boxes and kitchen scales. People use it to weigh small things like sugar or a coin.
Grammar\n\nGrammar is the set of rules for how we use words. It tells us how to put words together so people understand us. When you say "I have a red ball," you use grammar. It helps you know that "red" comes before "ball." In different places, people use grammar a little differently. For example, some say "I didn't do anything," and others say "I didn't do nothing." Both are grammar, just from different groups. Grammar changes slowly over time. The way we talk today is not the same as long ago. It has parts like nouns for things, verbs for actions, and adjectives for describing. All languages have grammar, and it helps us share our ideas.
Gran\n\nA gran is the mom of your mom or your dad. She is older and may have soft white hair. You can visit her at her house, and she might give you a warm hug. She likes to read you a story or bake yummy cookies. A gran loves you very much and smiles when you come to play.
Granary\n\nA granary is a small house on a farm that keeps grain safe. It has no windows, and it stands up on legs so water and mice cannot get in. Inside, it holds dry grain like wheat or corn. Farmers put the grain in through a hole up high and take it out through a door down low. This keeps the food fresh until people or animals need to eat it.
Grand Canyon\n\nThe Grand Canyon is a very big, deep crack in the ground. It is in a place called Arizona. It was made by a river named the Colorado River over a very, very long time. It has many layers of rock that look like stripes. You can see it from the top, and it is so wide and deep. Many people visit it to look and take pictures. Some people walk down inside it or ride a boat on the river.
Grandfather\n\nA grandfather is the dad of your mom or your dad. He is older than your parents, and he may have gray hair or a beard. Many grandfathers live in their own house, and you can visit them for a hug. He might tell you stories, take you to the park, or fix broken toys. Some grandfathers live very near, and some live far away. He loves you very much and is happy when you come to see him.
Grandma\n\nA grandma is the mom of your mom or your dad. She is older than your parents, and she may have white or gray hair. Many grandmas live in their own house, and you can visit them for a treat. She might bake cookies, tell stories, or play games with you. Some grandmas live very near, and some live far away. She loves you very much and is happy when you come to see her.
Grandmother\n\nA grandmother is the mom of your mom or your dad. She is older than your parents, and she may have white or gray hair. Many grandmothers live in their own house, and you can visit them for a treat. She might bake cookies, tell stories, or play games with you. Some grandmothers live very near, and some live far away. She loves you very much and is happy when you come to see her.
Grandpa\n\nA grandpa is the dad of your mom or your dad. He is older than your parents, and he may have white or gray hair. Many grandpas live in their own house, and you can visit them for a hug. He might tell funny stories, take you to the park, or show you how to fix things. Some grandpas live very near, and some live far away. He loves you very much and is happy when you come to see him.
Grandparent\n\nA grandparent is the parent of your mom or your dad. They are older than your parents and may have white or gray hair. You can find them at family parties, at their house, or on a video call. They often play with you, tell stories, or give you hugs and treats. A grandparent can be a grandma or a grandpa. Some kids call them nanna, papa, or other sweet names.
Granite\n\nGranite is a very hard kind of stone. It can be gray, pink, or brown, and sometimes has shiny little spots inside. You can find it deep under the ground, but sometimes it pushes up to make big hills or mountains. People cut it into flat pieces and use it for kitchen counters because it is strong and does not scratch easily. It also looks pretty when it is polished smooth.
Grape\n\nA grape is a small, round fruit that grows in bunches on a vine. It can be green, red, or purple. People eat grapes as a fresh snack, or they use them to make juice and jam. When grapes are dried, they become raisins, which are sweet and chewy. You might find grapes in a lunchbox or at a picnic.
Grapefruit\n\nA grapefruit is a big round fruit that grows on a tree. It has a thick skin that can be yellow or pink. Inside, the soft part can be red, white, or pink. It tastes sour and a little sweet. People cut it in half and eat it with a spoon for breakfast. Some people also make it into juice. It is bigger than an orange. The tree it grows on has dark green leaves and white flowers. If you take medicine, ask a grown-up before you eat grapefruit, because it can change how the medicine works.
Graph\n\nA graph is a picture that shows how two things go together. It has two lines that cross. One line goes up and down, and the other goes side to side. You can put dots on it to show numbers. For example, you can make a graph of how tall you are each year. It helps you see how things change. People use it in school and in books.
Graphic design\n\nGraphic design is a way to share ideas using pictures and words. It uses colors, shapes, and letters to make things look nice and easy to understand. You can see it on book covers, toy boxes, and signs at the store. People called graphic designers make these things. They put words and pictures together so you want to look at them. A cereal box with a happy tiger on it is graphic design.
Grass\n\nGrass is a small green plant that covers the ground. It has thin, flat leaves that grow close together. You can find it in yards, parks, and fields. People walk and play on it, and animals like cows and rabbits eat it. When you cut it short, it feels soft under your feet.
Grasshopper\n\nA grasshopper is a small bug that can jump very far. It has six legs, and the back two legs are big and strong. It lives in fields and gardens where there is lots of grass. It eats leaves and grass. Some people even eat it as food because it is good for the body.
Grassland\n\nA grassland is a big open place where the ground is covered with tall green grass. It has very few trees, so you can see far away. Many animals live there, like zebras, elephants, and rabbits. They eat the grass and run across the wide land. Some grasslands are called savannas or prairies. You can find them in hot parts of the world, like Africa.
Grateful\n\nGrateful is a warm, happy feeling you have when someone does something kind for you. It feels like a big hug inside your heart. You can feel it when a friend shares a toy, or when Mom makes your favorite snack. When you feel grateful, you want to say "thank you" and smile. It makes both you and the other person feel good.
Gravel\n\nGravel is many small, loose stones. It feels bumpy and rough when you touch it. You can find it on paths, in gardens, or on playgrounds. People use it to make roads and walkways so cars and feet do not slip. Sometimes it is mixed with sand to make strong stuff for building. It comes from old beaches or big rocks that are broken into tiny pieces.
Gravitational wave\n\nA gravitational wave is a tiny wiggle in space. It is like a small bump that moves through the air, but you cannot see it or feel it. It comes from very big things far away, like two giant stars crashing into each other. Scientists use big tools with long pipes and lights to find it. When they catch one, they learn about stars and how the sky works.
Gravity\n\nGravity is a pull that brings things together. It is invisible, like the wind, but you can see what it does. When you drop a ball, it falls down because the Earth pulls on it. The Earth is very big, so its pull is strong. The Moon also has gravity, but its pull is smaller. That is why people on the Moon can jump higher. Gravity keeps the Moon moving around the Earth and the Earth moving around the Sun. Without it, everything would float away.
Gray\n\nGray is a color. It is made by mixing black and white together. You can see it on a rainy day when the clouds are dark and soft. An elephant has thick gray skin. A pencil leaves a gray mark when you write on paper. Some roads and sidewalks are made of gray stone called cement. Gray is not as dark as black and not as bright as white. It sits right in the middle.
Grazer\n\nA grazer is an animal that eats grass. It has strong teeth to chew the tough grass all day. You can find it in big open fields where lots of grass grows. It moves slowly and eats for many hours. A cow is a grazer you might see on a farm. A horse is another grazer that likes to eat grass.
Great\n\nGreat means very big, very good, or very important. You might see a great big mountain that touches the sky. A great cake tastes so yummy you want more. When someone does something great, like sharing a toy, it makes others happy. A great big hug feels warm and safe.
Great Barrier Reef\n\nThe Great Barrier Reef is a huge, colorful home under the sea. It is made of many tiny animals called coral that build hard, rocky houses. It lives in the warm, blue water near a big island called Australia. Many fish, turtles, and other sea animals swim and play there. It is so big that people can see it from way up in space. The water must stay cool and clean for the coral to stay healthy.
Great Britain\n\nGreat Britain is a big island in the ocean. It has green hills, cities, and many people. You find it across the water from France and near Ireland. Three countries sit on it: England, Scotland, and Wales. The biggest city is London, where Big Ben stands. Many children live there and go to school.
Great Depression\n\nThe Great Depression was a long, sad time when many people had no money. It happened a long time ago. Stores closed, and many moms and dads lost their jobs. People stood in long lines to get a little bit of food. It was hard to buy new shoes or toys. Many families had to share one small home. After many years, things slowly got better.
Great Dividing Range\n\nThe Great Dividing Range is a very long line of hills and mountains in Australia. It runs along the east side of the country, from the top to the bottom. It is not one single mountain, but many hills and flat high places all in a row. The land is high, so clouds bump into it and drop lots of rain. This makes the coast side wet and green. Many rivers start here and flow down to the sea. Some parts are so big that people made parks to keep the trees and animals safe. You can see it if you look at a map of Australia — it is the long green line near the water.
Great Lakes\n\nThe Great Lakes are five very big lakes in North America. They are so big that they hold a lot of the world's fresh water. The five lakes are called Superior, Michigan, Huron, Erie, and Ontario. They are found on the border between the United States and Canada. One of them, Lake Michigan, is only in the United States. Many big cities sit next to them, like Chicago and Toronto. The lakes are all connected, so water can flow from one to the next. They are home to many fish and other water animals. People use the lakes for boats, fishing, and swimming. But sometimes, new plants or animals from far away get into the lakes and cause problems. Also, dirty water from factories can hurt the lakes. People work hard to keep the Great Lakes clean and safe.
Great Plains\n\nThe Great Plains is a big, flat land with lots of grass. It is in the middle of North America. It has hot summers and cold winters. Long ago, many big, hairy animals called bison lived there. Now, people grow food like wheat and corn on the land. Cows eat the grass and the food that grows there.
Great Pyramid of Giza\n\nThe Great Pyramid of Giza is a very big stone building in Egypt. It has a pointy top and four flat sides that meet at the bottom. It was built a long, long time ago for a king. Inside, there are three rooms and two long paths. People from all over the world come to see it because it is so old and so big.
Great Rift Valley\n\nThe Great Rift Valley is a very long, deep crack in the ground. It runs through many countries in Africa. It has tall mountains and big lakes along its sides. Some lakes are very deep and full of fish. People can see it in special parks where animals live.
Great Slave Lake\n\nGreat Slave Lake is a very big lake in Canada. It is long and wide, and it is the deepest lake in North America. The water is cold and deep, and in winter it freezes so people can drive cars on it. Many towns sit next to it, like Yellowknife. People live there and fish in it. Long ago, gold was found near it, and people came to dig for gold. Animals like birds and fish live in and around it.
Great Smoky Mountains National Park\n\nGreat Smoky Mountains National Park is a big park in the mountains. It sits in two states, Tennessee and North Carolina. The park has tall hills covered with many trees. You can see black bears, birds, and small animals that live there. People go to the park to walk on long paths and sleep in tents. It is a place where the air often looks a little smoky and blue.
Great Sphinx\n\nThe Great Sphinx is a very big statue made of stone. It has the head of a person and the body of a lion. It sits in the sand in a country called Egypt, near big triangle buildings called pyramids. It is very old and very large. The face looks straight ahead, and the paws stretch out in front. Long ago, people may have made it to guard the pyramids or to remember a king. Today, wind and water slowly wear the stone away, so people work to keep it safe.
Great Victoria Desert\n\nThe Great Victoria Desert is a very big, dry place in Australia. It is the largest desert in that country. It has tall sand hills, flat grassy spots, and salty lakes. It gets very little rain each year. Some animals live there, like kangaroos, lizards, and birds. They can stay alive in the hot sun and cold nights. Long ago, people from England tested big bombs in this desert. Today, not many people live there, but some families have called it home for a very long time.
Great Wall of China\n\nThe Great Wall of China is a very long wall made of stone, bricks, and dirt. It is so big that it goes over hills and across fields for many, many miles. You can find it in the country of China. Long ago, people built it to keep enemies out and to stay safe. It has tall towers where soldiers once stood to watch for danger. Today, many people walk on it and take pictures of it. It is one of the biggest things people have ever made.
Great white shark\n\nA great white shark is a very big fish that lives in the sea. It has a long, strong body, a pointy nose, and a big fin on its back. It has many sharp teeth that look like little triangles. It lives in warm water near the coast. It swims fast and hunts other animals like fish and seals. You might see one in a movie or a picture book about the ocean.
Great Zimbabwe\n\nGreat Zimbabwe is a very old city made of stone. It sits on a hill in a country called Zimbabwe, far away in Africa. It has big, tall walls built without any sticky stuff to hold the stones together. Long ago, a king and many people lived there. They bought and sold things with people from far places. Today, the city is empty and quiet, but people can visit and see the big stone walls.
Greater Antilles\n\nThe Greater Antilles is a group of big islands in the warm, blue sea. It has four main islands: Cuba, Jamaica, Hispaniola, and Puerto Rico. Hispaniola is one island with two countries on it. These islands are made of hard, old rock. They are not like the small islands nearby that grew from hot rock under the sea. People live on these islands and grow food like bananas and sugar. Many birds and colorful fish live around them too.
Greece\n\nGreece is a country in Europe. It is a place with many mountains and blue sea all around it. The land has many small islands, and the water is warm and clear. People live in white houses with blue roofs, and they grow olives and grapes. A long, long time ago, people in Greece told stories about gods and built big stone buildings. Today, many people visit Greece to see the old stones and swim in the sea.
Greed\n\nGreed is a strong wish to have more things than you need. It feels like a hungry voice inside that says, "I want more, more, more!" You can see it when someone grabs all the cookies and does not share. It can make a person forget to be kind. When you share your toys, you push greed away.
Greek\n\nGreek is something from a country called Greece. It can be the people who live there, the food they eat, or the way they talk. Greek people might eat flat bread, cheese, and olives. The Greek language uses letters that look different from English letters. Long ago, people in Greece built big stone buildings with tall white columns. You might see a Greek flag with blue and white stripes.
Greek alphabet\n\nThe Greek alphabet is a set of letters people use to write the Greek language. It has 24 letters, each with a big and a small shape. You can see these letters in math and science books, where they stand for numbers or ideas. Long ago, people used it to write stories and notes, and today people in Greece still use it every day. Some letters look like English letters, like A and B, but others have their own special shape.
Greek language\n\nGreek is a way of talking and writing that people use. It has its own letters that look different from the ones we use in English. Many people speak it in a country called Greece and on an island called Cyprus. A long, long time ago, people wrote big stories and smart ideas in Greek. Today, children in Greece learn to read and write it in school. Some words we use in English, like 'alphabet' and 'school', came from Greek.
Greek mythology\n\nGreek mythology is a big set of old stories from Greece. It tells about gods, goddesses, and brave people. The gods live on a tall mountain called Olympus. Zeus is the king of the gods and makes thunder and lightning. Poseidon is the god of the sea. The stories also have strange animals like a horse with a man's top, called a centaur. People long ago told these stories to explain the sun, the moon, and how the world began.
Green\n\nGreen is a color you see all around you. It sits between yellow and blue in the rainbow. You can make green paint by mixing yellow and blue paint together. Most leaves on trees and bushes are green because they have a special part inside that makes them look that way. Grass, frogs, and some apples are green too. When you look at a green light, it feels calm and cool.
Green algae\n\nGreen algae is a tiny living thing that grows in water. It looks like soft green fuzz or slime. You can find it in ponds, lakes, and even in a fish tank. It makes its own food from sunlight, just like a plant. Sometimes it floats on top of the water and makes it look green.
Green bean\n\nA green bean is a long, thin vegetable that is green. It grows on a plant in a garden or on a farm. You can find it fresh at the store, or in a can, or in a freezer bag. People cook it in hot water, in a pan, or in the oven. It is soft and a little sweet when you eat it. Some people mix it with mushrooms and crispy onions in a big dish. Others cook it with garlic and a dark sauce. You must cook it before you eat it, because raw ones can make your tummy hurt.
Green iguana\n\nA green iguana is a big lizard with green skin. It has a long tail, four legs with sharp claws, and a row of little spikes down its back. It lives in warm places with lots of trees, like forests in South America and on islands. It climbs trees to eat leaves, flowers, and fruit. Some people keep it as a pet in a big cage. You might see it at a zoo or in a book about animals.
Green politics\n\nGreen politics is a way of thinking about how people run a country. It cares a lot about keeping the air, water, and land clean. People who follow it want to use less stuff that makes smoke and dirt. They also want to protect animals and trees. You might see them planting trees or picking up trash at a park. They believe we should take good care of the Earth so it stays nice for everyone.
Greenhouse effect\n\nThe greenhouse effect is like a warm blanket around the Earth. It happens when some gases in the air hold heat from the sun. These gases are called greenhouse gases. One of them is carbon dioxide. The blanket keeps our planet warm enough for plants, animals, and people to live. But when people burn too much coal and oil, more carbon dioxide goes into the air. This makes the blanket too thick. Then the Earth gets too hot. That can cause big changes in weather and hurt animals in the ocean. We can help by using less energy and planting more trees.
Greenland\n\nGreenland is a very big island in the cold part of the world. It is covered with white ice and snow almost everywhere. The ground is hard and frozen, so trees do not grow tall there. Most people live near the sea, in small towns on the edge of the island. They use boats to catch fish and travel. The houses are often painted in bright colors like red, blue, and yellow. In winter, the sun does not come up for many days, and it is dark all the time. In summer, the sun stays out even at night, so children can play outside very late. Greenland is a place of ice, snow, and long, long nights.
Greenland ice sheet\n\nThe Greenland ice sheet is a huge blanket of ice that covers most of Greenland. It is very, very big and very, very thick. In some places, the ice is taller than a mountain. It is so heavy that it pushes the land down. If all the ice melted, the sea would rise and cover many beaches and towns. The ice is very old, much older than any person. It is the second biggest ice sheet in the whole world.
Greenland Sea\n\nThe Greenland Sea is a big body of water. It touches Greenland on one side and some islands on the other side. The water is very cold, and ice forms on top in winter. Many animals live in it, like seals, whales, and fish. Some seals have their babies on the ice there. People have gone there to hunt seals for a long time. The land near the sea has small plants that deer and big hairy oxen eat. Polar bears also live there and hunt for food.
Greeting\n\nA greeting is a way to say hello when you see someone. It can be a word, a wave, or a smile. You use it when you meet a friend, a teacher, or a family member. In the morning, you might say "good morning." When you wave your hand, that is also a greeting. It helps people feel happy and welcome.
Grenada\n\nGrenada is a small island country in the warm blue sea. It has green hills, sandy beaches, and colorful houses. Many people there grow spices like nutmeg, which smells sweet and goes into cakes. You can see boats and fish in the clear water. The main town is called St. George's, and it sits by a big, safe harbor.
Grey\n\nGrey is a color. It is not as dark as black and not as light as white. You can see it in clouds on a rainy day, in a soft mouse, or in a big elephant. Some rocks and stones are grey too. When you mix black paint and white paint together, you get grey. It is a quiet color that feels calm.
Grid\n\nA grid is a set of lines that cross each other. It looks like a big net made of straight lines going up and down and side to side. You can find a grid on a piece of paper with squares, like the kind you use for math. It helps people draw or put things in neat rows and columns. A checkerboard is a grid with black and red squares.
Grief\n\nGrief is a big sad feeling. It comes when someone or something you love is gone. You might cry a lot or feel very quiet inside. Sometimes it makes your tummy hurt or your eyes feel hot. It is okay to feel this way, and it gets softer over time. A hug from someone you trust can help.
Grill\n\nA grill is a metal frame that gets very hot. It sits on legs and has a flat top with bars. People put it outside in a yard or on a porch. They use it to cook food like burgers, hot dogs, and corn. The heat makes dark lines on the food and gives it a smoky taste. You might see a grill at a park or a friend's house when the weather is warm.
Grill (cooking)\n\nA grill is a tool for cooking food outside. It has a metal rack that holds the food over heat. The heat can come from burning wood, charcoal, or gas. It makes the food hot and gives it a smoky taste. People use it to cook meat like burgers, hot dogs, and steak. Many families use it in the summer for a fun meal in the yard.
Grimms' Fairy Tales\n\nGrimms' Fairy Tales is a big book of made-up stories. It has many tales about princes, princesses, talking animals, and magic. You can find it in a library or on a shelf at home. Grown-ups read the stories out loud to children before bed. One story you might know is about a girl named Snow White who lives with seven little friends.
Grind\n\nGrind means to rub something hard until it breaks into tiny bits. You can grind a rock with a bigger, harder rock. People grind coffee beans in a machine to make coffee. When you chew your food, your teeth grind it into small pieces so you can swallow. A loud, rough sound can also be called a grind, like when two stones scrape together.
Grip\n\nA grip is how you hold something with your hand. It is the way your fingers wrap around a thing and squeeze it tight. You use a grip when you pick up a cup, hold a crayon, or swing on the monkey bars. A good grip keeps the thing from slipping out of your hand. When you shake hands with a friend, you use a gentle grip.
Ground squirrel\n\nA ground squirrel is a small furry animal that lives on and in the ground. It has a round body, short legs, and a short tail. It digs holes and makes a home under the dirt called a burrow. It sleeps inside the burrow all winter long. When it stands up on its back legs, it can look around for danger. It makes a loud whistle to tell other ground squirrels to hide. Many of them live together in big groups.
Groundwater\n\nGroundwater is water that hides under the ground. It fills tiny holes in dirt and rocks. Rain falls from the sky and soaks down to become groundwater. It moves slowly under our feet for a long time. Sometimes it pops back up as a spring or flows into a river. Plants drink it with their roots to grow. People dig deep holes called wells to bring it up. They use it to water farms and for drinking.
Group\n\nA group is when two or more people or things are together. It can be a few friends playing in the park. You might see a group of birds flying in the sky. In school, your class is a group of children who learn together. A group shares something, like a game or a place.
Grouper\n\nA grouper is a big fish that lives in the sea. It has a wide mouth and a strong body. You can find it near warm coral reefs, hiding in rocks. It eats smaller fish and sometimes works with an octopus to catch food. Some groupers are as big as a grown-up person.
Grouse\n\nA grouse is a bird that looks a little like a chicken. It has brown, gray, and red feathers that help it hide on the ground. Its legs are covered with soft feathers all the way down to its toes. It lives in woods and fields, where it walks around looking for seeds and berries to eat. Some people call it a game bird because hunters sometimes look for it. You might see a picture of it in a book about forest animals.
Grow\n\nTo grow means to get bigger over time. A tiny seed can grow into a tall plant with green leaves. A baby grows into a child, then a grown-up. You need good food, water, and sleep to grow strong. A puppy grows fast and soon becomes a big dog. When you look at a photo from last year, you can see how much you have grown.
Growth\n\nGrowth means getting bigger or older. A tiny seed grows into a tall plant with green leaves. A baby grows into a child, then a grown-up. You can see growth when you mark your height on the wall every year. Animals grow too—a puppy grows into a big dog. Growth happens slowly, a little bit every day.
Guam\n\nGuam is a small island in the big blue ocean. It has warm weather, sandy beaches, and clear water with fish. Many people visit it to swim and play. It is part of the United States, so people there use dollars. The island has a city called Hagta and a busy beach called Tumon Bay.
Guanaco\n\nA guanaco is a tall animal with a long neck and soft, warm fur. It looks a little like a small camel without a hump. It lives in South America, high up on hills and mountains. It eats grass and leaves and can go a long time without drinking water. When it sees danger, it makes a loud call to warn its friends, and they all run away fast.
Guard\n\nA guard is a person who keeps a place safe. He watches the door or walks around to make sure no one gets hurt. You can see a guard at a school, a store, or a big building. He wears a special shirt or hat so you know who he is. He helps people when they are lost or need help.
Guatemala\n\nGuatemala is a country in the middle part of the world called Central America. It has warm weather and many mountains. Many people live there, and they speak Spanish. A long time ago, the big city moved three times because of fire mountains and shaking ground. Now the main city is called Guatemala City. You can see bright colored cloth and taste sweet fruits if you visit.
Guatemala City\n\nGuatemala City is a big, busy city. It is the most important city in the country of Guatemala. It has many houses, stores, and tall buildings. People go there to buy and sell things at big markets. You can also see old buildings where leaders once worked. It is full of cars, buses, and people walking on the streets.
Guava\n\nA guava is a sweet fruit that grows on a small tree. It is round like a ball and can be green or yellow on the outside. Inside, it has soft pink or white parts with tiny hard seeds. You can eat it raw, just like an apple, or make it into juice. It grows in warm places where the sun shines a lot. It has more vitamin C than an orange, so it helps keep you from getting sick.
Guess\n\nA guess is when you try to say an answer but you are not sure. It is like picking a door without knowing what is behind it. You can make a guess when you play a game, like guessing how many candies are in a jar. Sometimes your guess is right, and sometimes it is not. That is okay because a guess is just a try.
Guest\n\nA guest is a person who comes to visit your home. He or she may be a friend, a family member, or someone new. When a guest comes, you can say hello and make them feel welcome. They might stay for a short time, like for a meal, or sleep over for a night. You can share your toys or show them your room. A guest is someone you are kind to while they are with you.
Guide\n\nA guide is a person who shows the way. He helps you go from one place to another safely. You might see a guide on a hike in the woods or in a big museum. He points to things and tells you what they are. A guide can also be a book or a sign that gives you steps to follow.
Guild\n\nA guild is a group of people who do the same kind of work. Long ago, in towns, they made rules about how to learn and do their job. A new person had to learn from an older, wise worker for many years. After that, they could do the work on their own. There were guilds for bakers, builders, cloth makers, and many others. Today, some old guilds still help pick the leader of a big city.
Guilt (emotion)\n\nGuilt is a feeling you get when you think you did something wrong. It feels heavy and sad inside your chest or tummy. You might feel it after you break a toy, say a mean word, or take a cookie without asking. It can make you want to say sorry or fix what you did. Sometimes it helps you learn to be kind and do the right thing next time.
Guinea\n\nGuinea is a country in Africa. It is a big piece of land with many trees and rivers. People there speak French. Many people in Guinea follow the Muslim faith. The biggest city is Conakry, and it sits by the ocean.
Guinea pig\n\nA guinea pig is a small, furry animal that people keep as a pet. It has a round body, short legs, and no tail. Its ears are small and floppy. It comes in many colors like white, brown, black, and spots. You can find it in homes, where it lives in a big cage with soft bedding. It likes to eat hay, fresh veggies, and special pellets. It makes cute squeaky sounds when it is happy or hungry. A guinea pig needs a friend to play with because it does not like to be alone. Children often hold it gently in their hands and pet its soft fur.
Guitar\n\nA guitar is a musical instrument that makes sound when you pluck its strings. It has a big hollow body, a long neck, and six strings that go from the top to the bottom. You can see it in many places, like at home, in a music class, or on a stage. People use it to play songs by pressing the strings with one hand and plucking them with the other hand. A guitar can be soft and quiet or loud and fun, like the music you hear on the radio.
Gulf of Aden\n\nThe Gulf of Aden is a big body of water. It is part of the Indian Ocean. It sits between the land of Yemen on one side and Somalia on the other side. In the top corner, it joins the Red Sea through a narrow water path. In the bottom corner, it joins the Somali Sea. Big boats use it to carry things from one place to another.
Gulf of Alaska\n\nThe Gulf of Alaska is a big part of the ocean. It touches the south side of Alaska. The water is cold and blue. Big walls of ice called glaciers sit right next to the water. Some of these ice walls are as tall as tall buildings. Many fish, seals, and whales live in it. Big boats go there to catch fish. The land around it has tall mountains and dark green trees. Sometimes big waves roll in from the sea.
Gulf of Carpentaria\n\nThe Gulf of Carpentaria is a big, shallow sea in the north of Australia. It has land on three sides. The water is not very deep, and the bottom is flat. In the dry time of year, the wind blows and the sky is clear. In the wet time, lots of rain falls and the land near it gets covered with water. Long ago, people from far away came in boats and gave it its name.
Gulf of Guinea\n\nThe Gulf of Guinea is a big part of the ocean near West Africa. It is a warm, blue sea that touches many countries. You can find it on a map where the middle line of the world crosses the water. Big rivers like the Niger flow into it. It has many small islands, and some of them have tall mountains that once were hot fire mountains. People on the islands speak different languages and catch fish in the sea.
Gulf of Mexico\n\nThe Gulf of Mexico is a very big bowl of water next to the United States, Mexico, and Cuba. It is part of the big ocean called the Atlantic. The water in it is warm, and many fish live there. People catch fish from it to eat. Big storms called hurricanes can grow over its warm water. Some people also call it the Gulf of America, but many still say Gulf of Mexico.
Gulf of Saint Lawrence\n\nThe Gulf of Saint Lawrence is a very big body of water. It is where the Saint Lawrence River meets the big ocean. It has land on many sides, like a giant bowl of water. Many rivers flow into it, and it is home to fish, birds, and other animals. People use boats to cross it and to catch fish. Some small islands sit inside it, and birds stop there on long trips.
Gulf of Thailand\n\nThe Gulf of Thailand is a big body of water next to land. It is part of a bigger sea. Three countries touch it: Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam. It is not very deep, so the water is warm. Many rivers bring fresh water into it, so the water is not very salty. People like to visit because the water is warm and clear. They can see pretty fish and colorful rocks under the water. Some islands in the gulf have sandy beaches where families play and swim.
Gull\n\nA gull is a bird that lives near water. It has a white body, gray or black wings, and a yellow beak. It is about the size of a chicken. You can see it at the beach, by a lake, or even in a city. It looks for food on the ground, like bits of bread or fish. It can swim because it has special feet. It makes loud calls to talk to other gulls. A baby gull is called a chick.
Gulp\n\nA gulp is a big, fast swallow. It happens when you drink or eat something quickly. You can hear a small sound in your throat when you do it. Sometimes you gulp when you are very thirsty or scared. It is like a big sip that goes down all at once.
Gun\n\nA gun is a tool that can shoot a small metal piece very fast. It is made of hard metal and has a long part called a barrel. Police officers sometimes carry one to keep people safe. It makes a very loud bang when it shoots. You should never touch a gun because it can hurt someone badly. If you see one, tell a grown-up right away.
Gun dog\n\nA gun dog is a dog that helps people who hunt. It finds birds and brings them back. Some gun dogs point with their nose to show where a bird is hiding. Others run into bushes to scare birds out. A golden retriever is a kind of gun dog. It has soft yellow fur and loves to swim. Many people keep gun dogs as pets at home too.
Gunpowder\n\nGunpowder is a black powder that burns very fast. It is made from three things: saltpeter, charcoal, and sulfur. When it burns, it makes hot gas that pushes out hard. People put it inside guns and cannons to shoot a bullet or a ball far away. A long time ago, people in China first made it by mixing those three things. They also used it to make fireworks that fly up and go boom with bright colors. Today, you might see it in fireworks on a holiday.
Guppy\n\nA guppy is a tiny fish that lives in water. It has shiny scales and a tail that can be many bright colors like red, blue, or yellow. People keep it in a glass tank at home as a pet. It swims all day and is fun to watch. A guppy mom does not lay eggs—she has live babies that swim right away. It is easy to take care of and does not need much food.
Gupta Empire\n\nThe Gupta Empire was a big, old kingdom in a land called India. It was a time when people made beautiful art, wrote stories, and built tall temples. A king ruled over many towns and villages. People grew food on farms and traded things like cloth and spices. Long ago, children learned math and played games there.
Gut\n\nA gut is a long, twisty tube inside your belly. It looks like a soft, pink hose that folds up many times. You find it inside your tummy, below your ribs. It helps your body take good things from the food you eat and turns the rest into poop. When you eat an apple, your gut works to get the sweet part and the vitamins out of it.
Guy\n\nA guy is another word for a boy or a man. He can be tall or short, and he might have short hair or long hair. You can see a guy at school, at the park, or at the store. He can be a dad, a brother, a friend, or a teacher. A guy might like to play ball, read books, or tell funny jokes.
Gym\n\nA gym is a big room where people go to move their bodies and get strong. It has things like heavy balls, jump ropes, and soft mats on the floor. You can find a gym in a school or a special building in town. People run, jump, and lift things there to stay healthy. Sometimes a teacher shows kids fun games to play with a ball.
Gymnastics\n\nGymnastics is a sport where people move their bodies in strong and bendy ways. It has running, jumping, rolling, and flipping. In a gym, you can see a soft floor, a long low beam, and bars to swing on. Some gymnasts also use a big bouncy mat called a trampoline. They work hard to stay balanced and do moves that look like dancing. You might see gymnastics at a big sports show or on TV.
Ha\n\nHa is a sound people make with their mouth. It can be a laugh when something is funny. You might say it when you are surprised or when you blow out air. Sometimes people say it when they are tired after running. You can hear it when someone finds a fun surprise.
Habit\n\nA habit is something you do again and again without thinking much. It can be a good thing, like brushing your teeth every morning. It can also be a not-so-good thing, like biting your nails. You learn a habit by doing it many times until your body remembers. For example, putting on your seatbelt in the car is a habit for many people.
Habitat\n\nA habitat is a place where an animal or plant lives. It has everything the living thing needs, like food, water, and a safe spot to sleep. A pond is a habitat for frogs and ducks. A forest is a habitat for bears and tall trees. A desert is a habitat for cacti and lizards. If a habitat gets too hot or is cut down, the animals and plants may have to move or they may get hurt.
Had\n\nHad is a word we use to say something was with us before. It means you held it or owned it in the past. You might say, "I had a red ball yesterday." It is not with you now, but it was. You can use it for things, like a toy, or for feelings, like being happy. When you tell a story about what happened, you often use the word had.
Haddock\n\nA haddock is a fish that lives in the cold, salty sea. It has a long body with shiny silver skin and a dark mark on its side. People catch it in big nets far out in the ocean. It is a fish that many people like to eat. You can find it at the store or in a fish market. Sometimes it is cooked fresh, and sometimes it is smoked to give it a strong taste.
Hades\n\nHades is a king from very old Greek stories. He lives in a dark place under the ground where people go after they die. He is not mean, but people in the stories were scared of him. He has a wife named Persephone. She stays with him for part of the year. He has a special hat that makes him hard to see. His fruit is a red pomegranate.
Hagfish\n\nA hagfish is a long, thin fish that lives in the sea. It has a soft body with no hard bones, and its skin feels smooth. It has small eyes and little whiskers near its mouth to feel things. It lives deep down at the bottom of the sea. It eats dead fish and worms by using tiny teeth on its tongue. When it gets scared, it makes a lot of thick, gooey slime from its sides. The slime helps keep it safe from other animals.
Hagia Sophia\n\nHagia Sophia is a very old, big building in a city called Istanbul. It has a giant round roof called a dome that sits high up. Inside, the walls shine with tiny colored stones that make pictures. Long ago, people used it as a church to pray. Later, it became a mosque where people pray today. Many visitors come to look at its tall walls and bright lights.
Haiku\n\nA haiku is a short poem from Japan. It has three little parts. The first part has five sounds, the second has seven, and the last has five. It often talks about nature, like a frog jumping into a pond or a flower in the sun. You can write one too—just count the sounds on your fingers.
Hair\n\nHair is a thin, soft thing that grows out of your skin. It can be long or short, straight or curly. You have lots of it on top of your head. Some people have dark hair, and some have light hair. It keeps your head warm when it is cold outside. You can brush it, wash it, and put it in a ponytail. Many people go to a shop to cut it when it gets too long.
Hairbrush\n\nA hairbrush is a tool with a handle and many little sticks called bristles. It is used to make hair smooth and neat. You can find it in a bathroom or on a dresser. People use it every day to untangle hair after sleeping or before going out. Some hairbrushes are flat, and some are round. A child might see a small, colorful one with a soft grip.
Haircut\n\nA haircut is when someone cuts your hair to make it shorter. It happens at a special place called a salon or a barber shop. A grown-up sits in a big chair and wears a cape so hair does not fall on their clothes. The person cutting uses scissors or a buzzing tool. After it, your hair looks neat and tidy. You might get a haircut before a party or a picture day at school.
Hairstyle\n\nA hairstyle is the way a person's hair is cut and shaped. It can be short, long, straight, or curly. You see hairstyles every day on your friends, your family, and on TV. People change their hairstyle to look nice or to feel good. Some people like to put their hair up in a ponytail, and some like to wear it down. A barber or a hair stylist helps cut and shape hair into a new style.
Haiti\n\nHaiti is a country on an island in the warm blue sea. It shares the island with another country. Haiti has many tall green mountains and used to have many trees. People there speak French and a special kind of French mixed with African words. The biggest city is Port-au-Prince. Many people in Haiti grow food like mangoes and coffee to sell. A long time ago, the people fought to be free and became the first black republic. Sometimes big storms called hurricanes come and bring lots of rain. In 2010, the ground shook very hard in an earthquake, and many buildings fell down.
Hajj\n\nHajj is a big trip that Muslim people take. They go to a special city called Mecca. It is something they try to do once in their life if they can. Many people walk together and pray. They wear simple white clothes so everyone looks the same. It is a time to feel close to God.
Half\n\nA half is one of two equal parts of a whole thing. It is what you get when you cut something right down the middle. You can find a half when you share a cookie with a friend. If you have a whole apple and you cut it into two same-size pieces, each piece is a half. Two halves make one whole again.
Halibut\n\nA halibut is a big, flat fish that lives in the ocean. It has both eyes on one side of its head, and its body is brown on top and white underneath. People catch it to eat because its meat tastes good. It can grow very large, bigger than a big dog. You might see it at a fish store or on a dinner plate.
Hall\n\nA hall is a big room inside a building. It has a long, open floor and a high ceiling. You can find a hall in a school, a church, or a big house. People use it for walking from one room to another, or for having a party with many friends. Sometimes a hall has chairs and a stage for a show.
Halley's Comet\n\nHalley's Comet is a big ball of ice and dust that flies through space. It looks like a bright star with a long, glowing tail. You can see it in the night sky, but only once every 75 or 76 years. It travels around the Sun, and when it gets close, the Sun makes it shine and grow a tail. The last time people saw it was in 1986. The next time will be in 2061, when you are much older.
Halloween\n\nHalloween is a fun night on October 31. It is a time when children dress up in costumes. They go to houses and say "Trick or treat!" to get candy. People often wear scary clothes like ghosts or witches. Many homes have a pumpkin with a face cut out and a light inside. It is called a jack-o'-lantern. The colors of Halloween are black and orange. You might see fake spiders, bats, and skeletons as decorations. It is a happy night for playing pretend and eating sweets.
Halo\n\nA halo is a bright circle of light. It looks like a ring that shines above a person's head. You often see it in old paintings of angels or special people. It shows that the person is very good and kind. Sometimes you can see a halo around the moon on a cold night, made by tiny ice bits in the sky.
Ham\n\nHam is a kind of meat that comes from a pig. It is the back leg part of the pig. It is often pink and can be cut into thin, flat pieces. You can find it at the store in a cold box or in a can. People eat it on a sandwich with bread, or they put it on a plate with eggs for breakfast. Some ham is salty and some is a little sweet. It is a food many kids like.
Hamburg\n\nHamburg is a big city in the north of Germany. It sits next to a wide river called the Elbe, not far from the sea. Many boats and ships come to its port, which is one of the busiest in the world. People use the port to move boxes of toys, food, and clothes to other places. Hamburg has many bridges, more than any other city. It also has a big park where you can run and play. Some parts of the city have old, pretty buildings, and others have new, tall ones.
Hamburger\n\nA hamburger is a round, flat piece of meat between two soft bread buns. It often has a slice of cheese, a red tomato, and a green lettuce leaf on top. You can eat it with your hands, no fork needed. Many kids get one at a fast-food place with a toy. A cheeseburger is the same but with a melty cheese slice.
Hammer\n\nA hammer is a tool that helps you push nails into wood. It has a long stick you hold and a heavy metal part at the top. One side of the metal part is flat for hitting nails. The other side can be curved to pull nails out. You find hammers in a toolbox at home or with a builder. People use it to fix things or build new things like a birdhouse. A big hammer with a long handle is called a sledgehammer. You swing it with two hands to break big rocks. Long ago, people made hammers from stones tied to sticks.
Hammerhead shark\n\nA hammerhead shark is a kind of shark with a head shaped like a hammer. It has eyes on the ends of its wide head, so it can see all around. It lives in the ocean and swims near the bottom. It hunts fish, squids, and stingrays, using its head to hit them. It is gray with a white belly and can be as long as a car. Some people think it is a special protector of the sea.
Hamster\n\nA hamster is a tiny, furry animal that people keep as a pet. It looks a little like a mouse with a short tail. It has big, puffy cheeks where it hides its food. In the wild, it lives in dry, sandy places and sleeps during the day. As a pet, it lives in a cage with soft bedding. It loves to run on a wheel and play in tubes. It eats seeds, fruits, and veggies from a pet store. A hamster is fun to watch, but small children should be gentle with it.
Han\n\nHan is a name that many people have. It can be a boy's name or a girl's name. Some people have Han as their last name, too. You might meet a friend named Han at school or at the park. It is a short name that is easy to say and remember.
Han Dynasty\n\nThe Han Dynasty was a family of rulers in China a long, long time ago. It lasted for many hundreds of years. People remember it as a time when China grew big and strong. They made beautiful silk cloth and wrote on paper. Many children today learn about it in school.
Hand\n\nA hand is the part of your body at the end of your arm. It has four fingers and one thumb. The flat part inside is called the palm. It can bend and make a fist. You use it to hold a toy, eat food, and wave hello.
Handbag\n\nA handbag is a bag that people carry to hold their things. It is often made of soft cloth or leather. It has one or two straps so you can hold it in your hand or on your shoulder. People put many things inside it, like keys, a phone, a small wallet, and a brush. Some handbags are big, and some are small. You can see many people with a handbag at the store or on the street.
Handball\n\nHandball is a game where two teams try to throw a ball into a goal. It is played with the hands, not the feet. Each team has seven players: six who run and one who guards the goal. The court is bigger than a basketball court. Players bounce the ball and pass it to friends. They cannot step inside a special line near the goal unless they are the goalie. A game has two halves, and each half is thirty minutes long. You might see handball at a big sports event like the Olympics.
Handicraft\n\nHandicraft is making things with your hands. It uses simple tools like scissors, thread, or glue. People make pretty things that can also be used, like a basket or a clay cup. You can find handicraft at a fair or in a small shop. It is not made by big machines in a factory. When you make a paper flower or a bead necklace, that is handicraft.
Handle\n\nA handle is a part you hold with your hand. It is often a long bar or a round knob. You find it on doors, drawers, cups, and bags. You pull or push it to open something or to carry it. For example, the thing you grab to open the fridge is a handle.
Handsome\n\nHandsome means someone looks very nice. It is a word people use for a boy or a man with a kind face and a bright smile. You might hear someone say, "Your dad looks handsome in his new shirt." It can also mean a thing that looks strong and pretty, like a handsome horse or a handsome old car. When you dress up for a party, someone might call you handsome too.
Hang\n\nA hang is when something is held up in the air. It can be a coat on a hook, a picture on a wall, or a bag on a chair. When you put your jacket on a peg, it hangs there. A monkey hangs from a tree branch with its arms. Sometimes people hang wet clothes on a line to dry in the sun.
Hangul\n\nHangul is a set of letters for writing the Korean language. It has shapes that are easy to learn. A long time ago, a wise king made it so all people could read and write. Today, people in Korea use it every day. The letters join together into little blocks to make words.
Hanoi\n\nHanoi is a big city in the country of Vietnam. It has many old houses, busy streets, and a wide river called the Red River. Many people live there, and it is the place where the leaders of Vietnam work. You can see a big building where a famous leader rests, and a very old school made of stone. A yummy soup with noodles and meat was first made near this city.
Happen\n\nHappen is when something takes place or comes to be. It is like when a surprise party starts, or when rain begins to fall. You can see it happen when a friend smiles, or when a toy breaks. It is not a thing you can hold, but a moment that comes and goes. Every day, many little things happen around you.
Happily\n\nHappily is a way of doing something with a big smile and a light heart. It is how you skip when you get a new toy. It is how you hum when you eat your favorite snack. You can wave happily when you see a friend at the park.
Happiness\n\nHappiness is a warm, good feeling inside. It makes you smile and want to laugh. You feel it when you play with a friend, eat a yummy treat, or get a big hug. Sometimes it can even make you cry happy tears. It is the opposite of feeling sad. Everyone feels happy at some times and sad at other times.
Happy\n\nHappy is a feeling you get when something good happens. It makes you smile and want to laugh. You feel it when you play with a friend, eat a yummy treat, or get a big hug. Your heart feels light and your face gets bright. Everyone feels happy sometimes.
Harbor\n\nA harbor is a safe place for boats and big ships. It is like a quiet bed for them on the water. You can find it next to the sea or a big lake. Ships stop there so people can put things on or take things off. Some harbors are made by nature, and some are built by people. A harbor has long wooden paths called piers where you can walk and look at the water.
Hard\n\nHard means something is not soft. It does not bend or squish when you push on it. A rock is hard. A wooden block is hard. You can find hard things all around you, like the floor, a table, or a toy car. Some foods are hard too, like a carrot or a nut. When you tap a hard thing, it makes a loud sound.
Hard disk\n\nA hard disk is a box inside a computer that keeps your pictures, games, and songs safe. It has a shiny round plate inside that spins very fast. A tiny arm moves over the plate to read and write your stuff. You find it inside a laptop or a desktop computer. It stores all your favorite videos so you can watch them again later.
Hare\n\nA hare is an animal that looks like a big rabbit. It has long ears with black tips and strong back legs. You can find it in fields and meadows, hopping very fast. It can run as fast as a car on a slow street and jump far in one big leap. In winter, some hares turn white like snow so they can hide. In spring, they chase each other and sometimes hit with their paws. A group of hares is called a drove.
Harmonica\n\nA harmonica is a small music toy you play with your mouth. It is a flat metal box with many little holes on one side. You blow air in or pull air out through the holes to make sounds. Each hole makes a different note, like a tiny piano in your pocket. People use it in happy songs and sad songs. You might see one in a music store or hear it in a cartoon.
Harmony\n\nHarmony is when two or more notes play together and sound nice. It is like friends singing at the same time. You can hear it in a song when a group of people sing different parts. It makes the music feel full and warm. A choir at school or church often uses harmony. One person sings high, another sings low, and together they make a pretty sound.
Harp\n\nA harp is a big music tool with many strings. It is shaped like a tall triangle made of wood. You find it in an orchestra or in a music room. A person plays it by pulling the strings with their fingers to make pretty sounds. Each string makes a different note, like the white keys on a piano. Some harps are small enough to hold, and some are so big they stand on the floor.
Harrow (tool)\n\nA harrow is a big farm tool that makes dirt smooth and soft. It has a strong frame with metal teeth, round discs, or chains that scratch the ground. You find it on a farm, pulled behind a tractor. After a plow digs up the dirt, the harrow breaks the big lumps into tiny pieces. This helps seeds grow into plants. Some harrows also pull out weeds. A long time ago, horses pulled it, but now a tractor does the work.
Harvest\n\nHarvest is when people pick food that grew in the ground. It happens after seeds are planted and the sun and rain help them grow big. Farmers do most of the harvest on big fields. They pick things like apples, corn, and carrots. Sometimes a harvest is small if the weather was too hot or too wet. People also harvest food from the water, like oysters and scallops. After a good harvest, there is lots of fresh food to eat.
Has\n\nHas is a word we use to show that something belongs to someone or something. It is a small word we say when we talk about what a person or an animal owns. For example, a boy has a red ball. A cat has soft fur. We also use it to talk about parts of the body, like a dog has four legs. It helps us tell others about the things we carry or hold.
Haste\n\nHaste means doing something very fast. It is when you hurry and do not take your time. When you are in haste, you might run instead of walk. You might eat your snack too quickly. Sometimes haste makes you drop things or make a mess. It is better to be careful and not rush.
Hat\n\nA hat is something you wear on your head. It can be made of soft cloth or hard straw. People wear hats outside to keep the sun off their face. Some hats are for special jobs, like a firefighter’s hard hat or a chef’s tall white hat. You might wear a warm wool hat in winter to keep your ears cozy.
Hathor\n\nHathor is a goddess from old Egypt. She looks like a cow or a woman with cow horns on her head. People built big stone houses called temples for her near the Nile River. They went there to sing, dance, and ask for happy feelings. She helped people feel love and joy. Long ago, Egyptians drew her picture on walls and wore a special necklace to remember her.
Hatred\n\nHatred is a very strong feeling of not liking someone or something. It makes a person want to stay far away from that person or thing. It is the opposite of love. When someone feels hatred, they may feel angry and want to hurt or break what they hate. Sometimes people feel hatred for a long time. It is not a good feeling, and it can make people do mean things.
Havana\n\nHavana is a big city on an island called Cuba. It sits next to the blue sea. Many people live there. It is a very old city with old stone walls and big forts. Long ago, big ships stopped there on long trips. Today, people can fly to Havana on a plane. The streets have old houses painted in bright colors like yellow, blue, and pink. Some people ride in old cars that look like they are from a long time ago. Music plays in the streets, and people dance.
Have\n\nTo have means you hold something or it is yours. When you have a toy, you can play with it. You can have a pet, like a dog or a cat. You can also have a feeling, like being happy or sad. When you have a friend, you are not alone. You can have a snack when you are hungry.
Haven\n\nA haven is a safe, quiet place. It is somewhere you can go when you feel scared or tired. You might find a haven in your room, under a blanket, or in a cozy corner. It keeps you away from loud noises and big crowds. A haven feels warm and calm, like a hug. Some animals have a haven too, like a bird in its nest.
Having\n\nHaving means you hold something or it is with you. It is like when you have a toy in your hand or a snack in your bag. You can have a pet at home, like a dog or a cat. Having a friend means someone plays with you. It feels good to have things you like.
Hawaii\n\nHawaii is a group of islands in the big ocean. It is one of the fifty states of America. It has warm sun, blue water, and sandy beaches. Many people go there to swim, surf, and play. It has big hills made by fire mountains under the sea. The biggest island is also called Hawaii. The main city is Honolulu. People there say "aloha" to mean hello and goodbye.
Hawk\n\nA hawk is a big bird that flies high in the sky. It has wide wings, a short hooked beak, and sharp claws called talons. You can see it sitting on a tree or a tall pole, watching for food. It hunts small animals like mice and rabbits. It swoops down very fast to catch them. Sometimes you can spot a hawk circling in the air on a sunny day.
Hay\n\nHay is dry grass that farmers cut and save. It is put into big round or square blocks called bales. Farmers keep it in a barn or a big pile outside. It is food for animals like horses, cows, and rabbits. In winter, when the ground has no green grass, the animals eat hay to stay full and strong.
Haze\n\nHaze is when the air looks fuzzy and not clear. It is like a thin, gray blanket over the sky. You can see it on hot days when the sun makes the air thick. It makes faraway things look blurry and hard to see. Sometimes it comes from tiny bits of dust or smoke in the air. When you look through it, the world seems soft and quiet.
Hazelnut\n\nA hazelnut is a small, round nut that grows on a tree. It has a hard, brown shell and a soft, light-colored inside. You can find it in many places like Turkey, Greece, and Italy. People eat it as a snack or use it to make yummy things like chocolate spreads and nut butter. It tastes rich and a little sweet. You might have seen it in a chocolate candy or a jar of creamy spread at the store.
He\n\nHe is a boy or a man. You say "he" when you talk about a boy or a man. He can be your dad, your brother, or a friend. He might have short hair or wear pants. You see him at home, at school, or at the park.
Head\n\nA head is the top part of your body. It sits on your neck and holds your brain inside. On the front of it is your face, with eyes to see, ears to hear, a nose to smell, and a mouth to eat and talk. You can put a hat on it to keep warm. Sometimes it can hurt, and that is called a headache. A doctor who looks after it is a special kind of doctor.
Head of state\n\nA head of state is the top leader of a country. It can be a president or a king. In some places, people choose the president by voting. In other places, a king or queen gets the job from their family. Sometimes the head of state helps run the country every day. Other times, it just stands for the country at big events while someone else runs the government.
Heal\n\nHeal means to make something better when it is hurt or sick. When you have a cut on your skin, your body works to heal it. A bandage can help it heal by keeping it clean. A doctor or a nurse can give medicine to help you heal faster. When you rest and drink water, you help your body heal too.
Health\n\nHealth is how your body and mind feel. It means you are not sick and you feel good. When you are healthy, you can run, play, and jump without getting too tired. Eating good food like fruits and vegetables helps keep your body strong. Sleeping at night gives your body time to rest and grow. Washing your hands with soap keeps away germs that can make you sick. Feeling happy and safe is also part of being healthy. Doctors and nurses help people stay healthy by checking their bodies and giving medicine when needed.
Healthcare\n\nHealthcare is about keeping people healthy and helping them when they are sick. It includes visits to a doctor, getting medicine, and going to a hospital. A doctor is a person who checks your body and helps you feel better. They can give you a shot or a pill to make the hurt go away. A hospital is a big building where sick people stay to get care. When you have a cold or a fever, your mom or dad may take you to see a doctor. That is part of healthcare.
Healthy\n\nHealthy means your body feels good and strong. It is when you can run, jump, and play without getting tired too fast. You stay healthy by eating fruits, vegetables, and drinking water. Sleeping at night and washing your hands also help you stay healthy. When you are healthy, you smile a lot and feel happy inside.
Hear\n\nHear is when your ears pick up sounds. It happens when noises travel through the air and into your ears. You can hear many things every day, like a dog barking, a bell ringing, or a friend laughing. Your ears work even when you are sleeping, but your brain may not listen to all the sounds. Hearing helps you know what is happening around you.
Hearing\n\nHearing is how you know what sounds are around you. It uses your ears to catch tiny shakes in the air. These shakes are called sounds. Many animals can hear, like dogs, cats, and birds. Some animals hear with ears on the outside of their head, like you. Other animals, like fish, hear in a different way inside their body. When a sound comes to your ear, it goes through three parts inside. These parts help the sound get to your brain so you can know what it is. You can hear a dog bark, a bell ring, or your friend laugh.
Heart\n\nA heart is a strong muscle inside your chest. It is about the size of your fist. It pumps blood all around your body. Blood brings good air and food to every part of you. It also takes away things your body does not need. The heart has four little rooms inside. It sits between your two lungs. You can feel it beat when you put your hand on your chest.
Heat\n\nHeat is a kind of energy that makes things feel warm. It comes from the sun, a fire, or a stove. When you touch a warm cup of cocoa, you feel heat moving into your hand. It always goes from hot things to cold things. On a sunny day, you can feel it on your skin. It helps us cook food and stay cozy in winter.
Heat transfer\n\nHeat transfer is how warmth moves from one thing to another. It always goes from a hotter place to a colder place. You can see it when you touch a warm cup and your hand gets warm. That is one way it moves, called touch-passing. Another way is when warm air rises and cool air sinks, like in a room with a heater. The last way is when warmth travels through empty space, like the sun warming your face. All three ways help warmth get around.
Heat treating\n\nHeat treating is a way to make metal things stronger. It means heating a piece of metal until it is very hot, then letting it cool down. People do this in big ovens or with hot fire. It changes how hard or soft the metal feels. A blacksmith uses heat treating when making a sword or a horseshoe.
Heater\n\nA heater is a machine that makes a room warm. It can be small and sit on the floor, or big and hang on a wall. You find it in houses, schools, and cars when the air outside is cold. It uses electricity or fire to make heat. When you feel chilly, you turn it on and soon the room feels cozy. Some heaters glow orange and some blow warm air.
Heaven\n\nHeaven is a place some people believe in. It is a perfect, happy home where good people go after they die. Many people think it is up in the sky, above the clouds. In stories, it has bright light, soft music, and no pain or tears. Some say it has golden streets and pretty gardens. Different people have different ideas about it, but they all say it is a place full of love and joy.
Heavy\n\nHeavy means something is hard to pick up or carry. It feels like a big rock or a full bag of books. You can find heavy things at home, like a full laundry basket or a big pot of soup. When you try to lift it, your arms get tired fast. A grown-up often helps carry heavy things because they are too much for a little kid.
Heavy metal music\n\nHeavy metal music is a kind of loud, strong rock music. It uses electric guitars, a bass guitar, and drums. The guitars make a fuzzy, angry sound. People play it in big shows with bright lights. Some bands wear jeans, leather jackets, and have long hair. They jump and move a lot on stage. Many kids hear it on the radio or in video games.
Hebrew Bible\n\nThe Hebrew Bible is a very old book of stories and rules. It has three big parts: the Torah, the Nevi'im, and the Ketuvim. It was first written in the Hebrew language a long, long time ago. People read it in special buildings called synagogues. Some people also call it the Old Testament. It tells about how the world began and about brave people from long ago.
Hebrew language\n\nHebrew is a language that people speak. It has 22 letters that are written from right to left. Long ago, people in Israel spoke it, and the Bible was written in it. Today, people in Israel use it again to talk, read, and write. It sounds a little like Arabic.
Hedgehog\n\nA hedgehog is a small animal with a round body. It has many short, pointy sticks on its back. When it feels scared, it rolls into a tight ball so the sticks point out. It comes out at night to look for food like bugs and worms. Some people keep a hedgehog as a pet at home.
Height\n\nHeight is how tall something is. It tells you how far it is from the bottom to the top. You can measure height with a ruler or a tape. A baby is short, but a grown-up is tall. A tree can be very tall, and a flower is usually short. When you stand next to a friend, you can see who has more height.
Helicopter\n\nA helicopter is a flying machine with a big spinning fan on top. It has a long tail and a small fan at the back. You can see it in the sky, at an airport, or on TV. It can go straight up, stay still in the air, and land in small places. People use it to help sick people get to a hospital fast. It can also carry food and water when roads are broken. Some helicopters are used by soldiers.
Hello\n\nHello is a word you say when you meet someone. It is a friendly way to start talking. You can say it with a smile and a wave. People say hello on the phone, at the door, or when they see a friend. It makes others feel happy and welcome.
Helmet\n\nA helmet is a hard hat that keeps your head safe. It has a strong outside and soft padding inside. Straps go under your chin to hold it on. You see it on people who ride bikes, horses, or motorcycles. It stops your head from getting hurt if you fall. Builders wear one so nothing heavy hits their head. Firefighters and soldiers wear one too. Some sports like baseball and hockey use a helmet to play safe.
Help\n\nHelp is when you make something easier or better for someone. It can be a kind thing you do, like holding a door open or picking up a toy that fell. When you help, you use your hands, your words, or your time. A friend might help you tie your shoes. A grown-up might help you reach a high shelf. Helping makes people feel good and safe.
Helper\n\nA helper is a person who makes a job easier for someone else. It can be a friend, a family member, or a grown-up at school. A helper might carry heavy bags, clean up a mess, or show you how to tie your shoes. You see helpers in many places, like at home, in a store, or on the street. When you share your toys or hold a door open, you are being a helper too.
Helpful\n\nHelpful means you do something nice for someone. It is when you make a job easier or fix a problem. You can be helpful at home by putting your toys away. At school, you are helpful when you share crayons with a friend. Being helpful makes people feel happy and loved.
Helsinki\n\nHelsinki is a big city by the sea. It is the most important city in a country called Finland. It has many buildings, streets, and parks. Some parts of it are on islands. You can take a boat to go from one part to another. Many people live there and ride buses and trains. In winter, it gets very cold and snow covers the ground.
Hen\n\nA hen is a girl chicken. It has feathers, two legs, and a beak. You can find it on a farm or in a yard. It lays eggs that people eat for breakfast. A hen says 'cluck cluck' and sits on its eggs to keep them warm.
Henna\n\nHenna is a plant with small flowers. Its leaves are dried and crushed into a green powder. People mix the powder with water to make a thick paste. They use the paste to draw pretty shapes on hands and feet. The paste leaves a red-brown color on the skin that stays for many days. You can see henna art at weddings and happy parties.
Hephaestus\n\nHephaestus is a god from old Greek stories. He is the god of fire and making things from metal. He works in a hot shop under a mountain that sometimes spits fire. He uses a big hammer and fire to shape gold and silver into beautiful things. He made chairs, weapons, and even little helpers that moved on their own. People long ago told stories about him to show that working with your hands is good and strong.
Her\n\nA her is a girl or a woman. It is a word we use when we talk about someone who is not a boy. You might say "She is my friend" or "I gave it to her." When you see a girl playing with a doll, you can point and say "That is her toy."
Hera\n\nHera is a queen from old Greek stories. She is the wife of Zeus, the king of the gods. She wears a crown and a veil, and she likes peacocks, pomegranates, and cows. Hera takes care of women, families, and weddings. She lives on a tall mountain called Olympus with other gods. In some stories, she gets very angry and does mean things, but she also helps heroes like Jason.
Herakles\n\nHerakles is a strong hero from very old Greek stories. He is the son of a god and a human mother. People drew him as a big man with a club and a lion skin. He had to do twelve hard jobs, like fighting a lion and a snake with many heads. These jobs are called the Twelve Labors. In Rome, people call him Hercules. You might see him in a cartoon movie.
Herb\n\nAn herb is a small green plant that people use for food, smell, or medicine. It has soft leaves and a juicy stem when it is young. You can find it in a garden, in a pot by the window, or in the kitchen. People pick its leaves and add them to soup or meat to make the food taste better. Some herbs, like mint, smell very nice and are put in tea or candy. Others help when you have a cold or a tummy ache. You can grow an herb from a tiny seed, and it does not need much space.
Herbal medicine\n\nHerbal medicine is a way to help sick people feel better using plants. It can be made from leaves, flowers, roots, or seeds. People have used it for a very long time, even before writing was invented. Some old books from long ago have recipes for it. Today, you can find it in teas, creams, or pills at a store. A grown-up might give you a cup of warm tea with honey when you have a cold. That tea can be a kind of herbal medicine.
Herbivore\n\nA herbivore is an animal that eats only plants. It has teeth that are good for chewing grass and leaves. You can find it in fields, forests, and sometimes at the zoo. It spends much of its day looking for food and eating. A cow is a herbivore you might see on a farm. A deer is another one that lives in the woods.
Hercules\n\nHercules is a strong hero from very old stories. He is a man with big muscles, and people drew him wearing a lion skin on his back. You can find him in books with pictures of long-ago times. In the stories, he did twelve hard jobs, like fighting a big lion and catching a fast deer. He used his strong arms to help people and keep them safe. Many children see him in cartoons or on lunch boxes.
Herd\n\nA herd is a big group of animals that stay together. It can be cows, sheep, horses, or other animals that walk and eat grass. You can see a herd on a farm or in a field. The animals in a herd feel safer when they are close to each other. They move and eat as one big family.
Here\n\nHere means in this place or at this spot. It is the opposite of there, which means a place far away. When you point to the floor next to your feet, you say here. A teacher might say, "Come here," and you walk to her side. You can use it to show where something is, like when you find a lost toy and shout, "It is here!"
Heredity\n\nHeredity is how parents pass down looks and traits to their children. It is why a baby cat looks like its mom and dad. It is also why your eyes might be the same color as your mom's eyes. The way a flower gets its color from its parent flower is heredity too. It is like a tiny set of instructions inside every living thing.
Hermes\n\nHermes is a god from old Greek stories. He is the son of a big god named Zeus and a mother named Maia. He is very fast and clever. People say he carries a special stick with two snakes wrapped around it. He also wears a hat with wings and shoes with wings so he can fly. Hermes helps travelers find their way and brings messages from the gods. One story says he made a music tool from a turtle shell when he was just a baby.
Hermitage Museum\n\nThe Hermitage Museum is a very big building full of old and pretty art. It is in a city called St. Petersburg, far away in Russia. It has many rooms, and one part was once a home for kings and queens. Inside, you can see paintings, shiny gold things, and even a crown. Some cats live there too, and they walk around the halls. People from all over the world come to look at the art and the cats.
Hero\n\nA hero is a person who is very brave and helps others. He does good things even when it is hard or scary. You can find a hero in real life, like a firefighter who saves a cat from a tree. He can also be in a story, like a knight who fights a dragon. A hero is not mean; the mean one is called a villain. A girl hero is called a heroine. When you share your snack with a sad friend, you are a little hero too.
Heron\n\nA heron is a tall bird with long legs. It has a long, pointy beak and a long neck. You can see it standing still in shallow water near ponds, lakes, or rivers. It waits very quietly and then catches a fish with its beak. When it flies, it pulls its neck into an S shape. Some herons are white, and some are gray or blue.
Herring\n\nA herring is a small fish that lives in the ocean. It has shiny silver skin and a thin body. Many herrings swim together in a big group called a school. They do this to stay safe from bigger fish that want to eat them. People catch herrings to eat. They often smoke them or put them in a jar with salt water. You might see a herring at a market or on a plate.
Hers\n\nHers means something that belongs to a girl or a woman. It is a word you use when you talk about her things. You might say, "That toy is hers," or "The red coat is hers." You see this word in books and hear it when people talk. It helps you know whose thing it is.
Herself\n\nHerself is a word we use when we talk about a girl or a woman. It points back to the same person we just named. For example, if Mom says "She made the cake all by herself," it means she did it with no help. You can use it when a girl does something on her own. It is a small word that helps us know who did the action.
Hi\n\nHi is a short, friendly word people say when they meet. It is a way to say hello. You hear it at home, at school, or at the park. When you say hi, you smile and wave your hand. It makes people feel happy and seen.
Hibernation\n\nHibernation is a long, deep sleep that some animals take when winter comes. It is a way to rest when it is very cold and food is hard to find. During this sleep, the animal's body gets cool, and its breathing becomes very slow. It uses fat that it stored in its body from eating a lot in summer and fall. Animals like bats, hedgehogs, and some squirrels hibernate. They wake up when the weather gets warm again.
Hickory\n\nA hickory is a tall tree that loses its leaves in fall. It has long leaves made of many small parts, and it grows big nuts. In spring, it makes tiny yellow-green flowers that hang down like soft strings. The wind helps the flowers make new nuts. You can find it in forests and parks. Its wood is very hard and strong. People use the wood to make things like tool handles and chairs.
Hide\n\nTo hide means to put yourself or a thing where no one can see it. You can hide behind a big chair or under a blanket. When you play hide-and-seek, you find a good spot and stay very quiet. Animals hide too—a bug might hide under a leaf, and a rabbit might hide in tall grass. Hiding can keep you safe or just be a fun game.
Hide-and-seek\n\nHide-and-seek is a fun game that children play together. In it, one person closes their eyes and counts while the others run to hide. When the counting is done, the seeker shouts and starts looking for everyone. The last person found is the winner. Sometimes there is a safe spot called home base where you can run and be safe. It is a game you can play inside the house or outside in a park.
Hieroglyph\n\nA hieroglyph is a picture that stands for a sound or a word. It looks like a little drawing of an animal, a person, or a shape. Long ago, people in Egypt carved it on stone walls and big buildings. They used it to write stories and keep records. Only a few people, like priests and leaders, knew how to read and write it. Today, we can see it in museums or in books about old times.
High\n\nHigh means something is far up from the ground. It is the opposite of low. A bird can fly high in the sky. A tall tree is high, and its top is hard to reach. You can climb high on a ladder or a slide. When you look down from a high place, things below look very small.
High jump\n\nHigh jump is a sport where people jump over a bar. It is a long, thin stick that sits high up on two poles. You can see it at a big running track or at school on sports day. A person runs fast, then jumps up and over the bar without knocking it down. They get three tries at each height. If they touch the bar but it stays up, the jump is good. The goal is to jump higher than everyone else.
High-rise building\n\nA high-rise building is a very tall building. It has many floors stacked on top of each other. People live in it, work in it, or stay for a night like in a hotel. You can see it in big cities where many people need space. It uses a moving room called an elevator to go up and down fast. A very tall one is called a skyscraper.
High-speed rail\n\nHigh-speed rail is a kind of train that goes very, very fast. It looks like a long, smooth tube on wheels. You find it on special tracks, often between big cities. People use it to travel quickly from one place to another. It can go much faster than a car on a road. Some high-speed rail trains are white and have a pointy nose. You might see one in a picture book or a video about trains.
Highway\n\nA highway is a big road that cars and trucks drive on. It goes between towns and cities. It has many lanes so lots of cars can go at the same time. Sometimes it has a wall or a strip of grass in the middle to keep cars safe. You can see it when your family drives on a long trip. It often has a number on a sign to help people know which road it is.
Hike\n\nA hike is a long walk outside. It happens on a path in a park, a forest, or up a hill. You wear strong shoes and carry water. It makes your legs strong and your heart happy. You might see birds, trees, and flowers along the way.
Hiking\n\nHiking is walking outdoors for fun. It is a way to spend time outside in nature. People hike on trails in the woods, up hills, or near lakes. They carry a backpack with water and snacks. Hiking helps you feel strong and happy. You can see birds, trees, and flowers along the way. It is best to hike with a grown-up so you stay safe.
Hill\n\nA hill is a bump of land that is higher than the ground around it. It is not as tall as a mountain, and its sides are not very steep. You can find hills in parks, near farms, or in the countryside. People like to walk up a hill to see far away. Some hills have grass and trees on top. A hill is a good place to fly a kite or have a picnic.
Him\n\nHim is a word we use to talk about a boy or a man. When we say "him," we mean that person, but we are not saying his name. You might hear it in a sentence like "I gave the ball to him." It is a small word that helps us tell who did what. You can use it when you play with a friend and say "I see him!"
Himalayas\n\nThe Himalayas are very tall mountains in Asia. They are so high that the tops are always covered in white snow. Many of the biggest mountains in the world are there, like Mount Everest. It is the tallest one on Earth. Some animals that live there are snow leopards, blue sheep, and yaks. A yak is a big, hairy animal that looks like a cow. The mountains are so big that they stop cold wind and make rain fall on one side. Many people visit to see the pretty trees and animals.
Himself\n\nHimself is a word we use when a boy or a man does something all on his own. It means no one else helped him. You might hear someone say, "He made the sandwich himself." That means he did it with his own two hands. When a friend ties his shoes himself, he feels big and proud. It is a way to say he did it, and no one did it for him.
Hindi\n\nHindi is a language that many people speak. It is the most common language in India. Nearly half of all people in India use it to talk, read, and write. It looks like pretty shapes and lines when written down. You can hear it in songs and movies from India. Many families who moved to other countries still speak it at home.
Hinduism\n\nHinduism is a very old way of life and a set of beliefs. It started in a big country called India. People who follow it are called Hindus. They believe in being kind, telling the truth, and not hurting living things. They also believe that every good or bad action has a result, like a seed growing into a plant. Many Hindus visit colorful temples to pray and sing. They also have happy festivals with lights, colors, and sweet foods.
Hindustani\n\nHindustani is a way of talking that many people use in India. It is made of two older ways of talking: Hindi and Urdu. You can hear it in songs, movies, and on the street. People use it to say hello, tell stories, and buy things at the market. It sounds pretty and has many fun words.
Hindustani language\n\nHindustani is a way people talk in two big countries, India and Pakistan. It has two names: Hindi and Urdu. When people write Hindi, they use pretty letters called Devanagari. When they write Urdu, they use different pretty letters called Nastaliq. Even though the letters look different, the words sound almost the same. A person who speaks Hindi can understand a person who speaks Urdu. Many people use it every day to say hello, ask for food, and tell stories.
Hinge\n\nA hinge is a small metal piece that helps a door move. It has two flat parts that join with a pin in the middle. You can find it on doors, cabinets, and toy boxes. It lets the door swing open and shut without falling off. When you open a door, the hinge is the part that makes a little squeak sometimes.
Hint\n\nA hint is a small clue that helps you guess something. It is like a little push in the right direction. You might hear a hint when you play a guessing game. A friend can give you a hint by saying a word or making a face. It makes finding the answer easier and more fun.
Hip\n\nA hip is a part of your body. It is where your leg meets the side of your body, below your waist. You have two hips, one on each side. They help you walk, run, and jump. When you sit down, you bend at your hips. You can feel them by putting your hands on your sides.
Hip hop\n\nHip hop is a kind of music and art that started in big cities. It has three main parts: music with a strong beat, fast talking with rhymes called rapping, and a dance called breakdancing. You can hear it on the radio, on TV, or at a party. People move their bodies to the beat and sometimes spin on the floor. Some hip hop songs tell stories about life in the city. Many singers use short, fun names like Snoop Dogg or Eminem.
Hippocrates\n\nHippocrates was a very old doctor from a long, long time ago. He lived in a land called Greece. He helped sick people feel better. He is called the father of medicine because he was one of the first to say that sickness comes from nature, not magic. He taught other people to be kind and careful doctors. Today, new doctors still say a special promise that is named after him.
Hippopotamus\n\nA hippopotamus is a very big animal that lives in Africa. It has a huge mouth, short legs, and thick gray skin with almost no hair. It stays in rivers and lakes during the day to keep cool. At night, it comes out to eat grass. A hippo can be very dangerous if people get too close to its babies.
Hiroshima\n\nHiroshima is a big city in Japan. It sits near the water in the west part of the country. Many people live there. A long time ago, a very strong bomb fell on the city. The bomb hurt many people and broke many houses. Today, people remember that day at a special old building that is still standing. Near the city, there is a small island with friendly deer and a pretty red gate that stands in the water.
His\n\nHis means something belongs to a boy or a man. You use it when you talk about a thing that is his. For example, if a boy has a red ball, you can say the red ball is his. It is a small word that shows who owns something.
Hispaniola\n\nHispaniola is a big island in the warm blue sea. It has tall green mountains, wide valleys, and sandy beaches. Two countries share it: Haiti on one side and the Dominican Republic on the other. Many people live there and speak different languages. Long ago, a man named Columbus came with big ships and met the people who already lived on the island. Today, you can see old stone buildings from that time.
Hiss\n\nA hiss is a long, soft sound like air coming out of a tire. It sounds like sssssss. You can hear it when a snake opens its mouth and pushes air out. A cat also makes a hiss when it is scared or angry. Sometimes a hot pan makes a hiss when you put water on it. It is a quiet but sharp sound that tells you to be careful.
History\n\nHistory is the story of things that happened a long time ago. It tells us about people, places, and events from the past. We learn it from old books, letters, and things people made, like pots and tools. These old things are kept safe in big buildings called museums. A person who studies history is called a historian. Some people also learn about the past by talking to older people who remember what happened. This helps us know how people lived before we were born.
History of agriculture\n\nAgriculture is how people grow food and raise animals. Long, long ago, people picked seeds from wild plants and put them in the ground. They also kept wild animals close to home. Over time, the plants and animals changed to give more food. People in different parts of the world started doing this on their own. Later, big groups of people made ways to bring water to dry fields. They used animals to help pull tools. In the Middle Ages, farmers made better tools to dig hard dirt. They also learned to change which crop grows in a field each year. In the 1700s and 1800s, new machines helped plant seeds faster. In the 1900s, big machines called tractors took over the hard work. Today, farmers use many tools to grow lots of food for everyone.
History Of Architecture\n\nHistory of architecture is the story of how people build houses and big buildings. It tells us about homes made of mud, wood, or stone long ago. You can see old buildings in books or when you visit a city. People used to build with their hands, but now they use big machines. A castle with tall towers is one example from a long time ago.
History of Asia\n\nThe history of Asia is the story of people who lived there long ago. It is a very big place with many different lands. Long ago, people started the first big towns near rivers. They grew food and made wheels and writing. Later, some people rode horses across wide, flat grass fields. They moved from place to place and sometimes fought with the town people. Big walls of rock and sand kept some groups apart. Over time, many big families of rulers came and went. People built long roads for buying and selling things like silk. Today, many countries in Asia have their own flags and stories.
History of astronomy\n\nAstronomy is the study of stars, planets, and the sky. Long ago, people looked up at night and saw bright dots. They gave names to groups of stars and watched how some lights moved. A long time later, a man named Copernicus said the Sun sits in the middle and Earth goes around it. Today we use big tubes called telescopes to see faraway stars and learn more about space.
History of Australia\n\nThe history of Australia is the story of a big island far away. It is a land with deserts, forests, and beaches. The first people lived there for a very long time. They hunted, fished, and told dream stories. Later, people from across the sea came in big boats. Some were sent as a punishment. They built towns and farms. Gold was found in the ground, and many more people came. Now it is one country with its own rules.
History of China\n\nThe history of China is a long, long story about a big country. It starts many, many years ago. Long ago, different families called dynasties ruled the land. One early ruler joined the walls to make the Great Wall. People made writing and used the same money. Later, a golden time brought new ideas and big cities. A woman even became the only empress. Then, leaders from the north came and opened China to the world. Big ships sailed far away. The last old rulers built a famous palace. In modern times, China grew very fast and held big sports games.
History of Christianity\n\nChristianity is a big group of people who follow Jesus. It started a long, long time ago in a place far away. Jesus taught people to be kind and to love one another. His friends told many other people about him. At first, only a few people listened, but later, many people joined. They built big, pretty houses to pray in. Today, you can see churches in many towns. Some people wear a cross to remember Jesus.
History Of Earth\n\nThe history of Earth is the story of our planet from long, long ago until today. It is a very, very old place. At first, it was a hot ball of rock and fire. Over a very long time, it cooled down and water filled the big holes to make oceans. Tiny living things started in the water. Later, big animals like dinosaurs walked on the land. Now, people live all over it. You can see parts of this story in rocks and bones in a museum.
History of Europe\n\nThe history of Europe is the story of people who lived on a big piece of land across the ocean. It starts a long, long time ago, even before your great-great-grandparents were born. People built stone houses, made tools, and drew pictures on cave walls. Later, they built big cities with tall buildings and roads made of stone. Kings and queens ruled the land, and knights in shiny armor rode horses. People sailed on big wooden ships to find new places. They made beautiful art and wrote stories that we still read today. Over time, they built trains, cars, and tall buildings that touch the sky. The story of Europe is still going on, with new things happening every day.
History of India\n\nThe history of India is the story of a big, old land. It started a long, long time ago when people first lived there. They used simple stone tools to hunt and gather food. Later, they learned to grow plants and built big cities near rivers. Many kings and groups ruled the land over time. One king named Ashoka helped spread a kind and peaceful way of life. Today, people in India remember this long story through old books, songs, and special places.
History of Japan\n\nJapan is a country made of many islands in the ocean. A long, long time ago, people there lived in small groups and made pots from clay. Later, they learned to grow rice in wet fields. Rice became their most important food. Big families called samurai had swords and armor. They built strong castles with tall walls. Today, people can visit old castles and see shiny swords in museums. Japan has a very long story that goes back thousands of years.
History Of Life\n\nThe history of life is the story of how living things began and changed on Earth. It started a long, long time ago with tiny bits too small to see. Over many, many years, those tiny bits grew into fish, then animals that walked on land, and later into big dinosaurs. After the dinosaurs went away, small furry animals came, and one kind turned into people. You can see parts of this story in old bones and shells buried in the ground.
History Of Literature\n\nHistory of Literature is the story of books and writing from long ago until now. It tells us about old stories people wrote on clay, stone, or paper. You can find these stories in libraries and schools. People read them to learn about the past and to have fun. A fairy tale your teacher reads is part of this history.
History of mathematics\n\nThe history of mathematics is the story of how people learned about numbers, shapes, and counting long ago. It started in old places like Egypt and Babylon, where people used math to build big things and measure land. Later, smart people in Greece and India found new math ideas. They learned about zero, how to add and take away, and how to draw shapes with rules. Today, math helps us build cars, fly to the moon, and play games on a screen. You use math when you count your toys or share cookies with a friend.
History of medicine\n\nThe history of medicine is the story of how people learned to help sick people feel better. It started a long, long time ago. Early people used plants to heal cuts and aches. Later, smart people in places like Egypt and China wrote down ways to fix broken bones and stop pain. A man named Hippocrates in Greece taught that sickness comes from nature, not magic. Over time, doctors learned to look inside the body, wash their hands, and make shots that keep us from getting sick. Today, we have clean hospitals and pills that help us stay well.
History Of Music\n\nHistory of music is the story of how people made sounds and songs long ago. It started with clapping hands and hitting sticks together. Later, people made simple flutes from bones and drums from animal skins. A long time ago, kings and queens had special music in big stone rooms. Today, we hear music on phones, in cars, and on TV. Every country has its own songs and dances. Music helps people feel happy, sad, or excited.
History of North America\n\nNorth America is a big piece of land where many people live. Long ago, the first people came and made their homes all over it. They lived in small groups and big groups, and they knew how to grow food like corn. Later, people from far away came in big boats. They built new towns and changed how people lived. Today, you can see many different places and hear many stories about the old days.
History Of Religion\n\nHistory of Religion is the story of how people have believed in gods and spirits over a very long time. It is about the big ideas and stories that groups of people share. Long ago, people looked at the sun, moon, and stars and told stories about them. They built special places to pray and sing together. Today, many people still go to churches, temples, or mosques to be with others who believe the same things.
History of Saudi Arabia\n\nSaudi Arabia is a big country in a hot, sandy part of the world. It has a long story that starts with a family called Al Saud. Long ago, they became the leaders of a place in the middle of the Arabian Peninsula. Over many years, the family fought to keep their land. A man named Abdulaziz Ibn Saud took back the city of Riyadh and later became king. In 1932, he made the country one kingdom. Later, people found oil under the ground, and that made the country very rich. Before all of this, the land was home to many old people and cultures. A very important thing happened there: the religion of Islam began in the cities of Mecca and Medina. Today, those cities are holy places for Muslims all over the world.
History of science\n\nThe history of science is the story of how people learned about the world. Long ago, people looked at the sky and asked big questions. They watched the sun, moon, and stars. Some smart people in old times thought the sun went around the earth. Later, others found out the earth goes around the sun. People also learned about plants, animals, and how things move. They used tools to see tiny things and faraway things. Today, we know a lot because many people kept asking questions and sharing what they found.
History of Spain\n\nSpain is a country in Europe. It has a long story that goes back many, many years. Long ago, different groups of people lived there, like the Romans and later the Moors. They built big stone buildings that you can still see today. For a time, Spain sent ships across the big ocean and ruled faraway lands. Now it is a peaceful place where people vote for their leaders. Many families go there on vacation to play on sunny beaches.
History of technology\n\nThe history of technology is the story of how people made new tools over time. It starts a long, long time ago when people first used sticks and stones to help them. Over many years, they learned to make fire, wheels, and simple machines. Today, it includes things like phones, cars, and computers that we use every day. It shows how clever ideas can change the way we live, work, and play.
History of the Earth\n\nThe history of the Earth is the long story of our planet from the very start until now. It began as a big, spinning cloud of dust and gas in space. Over a very long time, the dust and gas came together to make a hot, round ball. Later, a big rock hit the Earth and broke off a piece that became the Moon. At first, the Earth was too hot for any living thing. After many, many years, it cooled down and water made the first oceans. Then, tiny living things started in the water. Slowly, the land broke into big pieces that moved around. Plants and animals grew and changed over a very, very long time. Today, the Earth has many places like mountains, oceans, and forests where people, animals, and plants live.
History of the United States\n\nThe history of the United States is the story of a country in North America. It is a big place with many people, and its story goes back a long, long time. First, Native Americans lived on the land for many years. Then, people from England came and built small towns. Later, the people in the towns did not want to be ruled by a faraway king, so they fought a war and made their own country. Over time, it grew bigger, with more states and more people. It had hard times, like a big war inside the country, and good times, when people made new things. Today, it is a strong country with many different people.
History of the universe\n\nThe history of the universe is the story of how everything began. It started with a big, hot burst of energy a very long time ago. After that, tiny bits called atoms came together to make stars and planets. Our Earth is one of those planets. People live on Earth, and we look up at the night sky to see stars that are very old. The universe is still growing bigger every day.
History of video games\n\nVideo games are fun things you play on a TV or a small screen. They started a long time ago, in 1971. At first, only a few people played them. Then, many people in America, Japan, and Europe began to like them. For a short time, the games had a big problem and almost went away. But they came back strong and grew a lot. Now, video games make a lot of money, almost as much as movies. You can play them on boxes like Xbox, PlayStation, and Nintendo. Some games are old, like a jumping man named Mario on a big gray box. New games let Mario run in big, open worlds on a small flat screen you can hold.
History of writing\n\nWriting is a way to put words down so people can read them later. It uses marks and shapes that stand for sounds and words. Long ago, people drew pictures on cave walls and clay to tell stories. Over time, those pictures turned into letters like the ones you see in books. Today, writing is everywhere — on signs, in storybooks, and on your tablet. You use writing when you draw your name or make a card for a friend.
Hit\n\nA hit is when one thing bumps into another thing with a lot of force. It can be a soft tap or a hard smack. You might see a hit when a ball meets a bat in a game. Sometimes people hit a drum to make a loud sound. A hit can also mean a song or movie that many people like.
Hive\n\nA hive is a house for bees. It is made of many tiny rooms called cells. You can find it hanging from a tree or in a wooden box that a beekeeper takes care of. Bees live inside it and make honey there. They work together to keep the hive safe and full of food. Sometimes you see a hive in a garden or on a farm.
Hmm\n\nHmm is a soft sound people make with their mouth closed. It can mean you are thinking hard about something. You might hear it when someone looks at a puzzle or tries to remember where they put their toy. Sometimes it means the person is not sure what to say. It is a quiet, humming noise that comes from the throat.
Hmong people\n\nHmong people are a group of people who first lived in China. They have their own way of talking, their own clothes, and their own stories. Long ago, many of them moved to other warm places like Vietnam, Laos, and Thailand. Today, some also live in the United States and other far-away lands. They grow food, make bright and pretty cloth, and sing songs to tell old tales.
Ho Chi Minh City\n\nHo Chi Minh City is a very big city in the south of Vietnam. It has many houses, tall buildings, and busy streets. A long river called the Saigon River runs through it. Many people live there, and they ride motorbikes and bikes on flat roads. Sometimes the streets get wet when it rains a lot. You can see boats on the river and eat yummy food at markets. Some people call it by its old name, Saigon.
Hobby\n\nA hobby is something you do just for fun. It is not work or a chore. You pick it because it makes you happy. Some hobbies use your hands, like drawing, painting, or building with blocks. Other hobbies use your brain, like reading a book or doing a puzzle. You can do a hobby inside your home or outside in the park. Many kids have a hobby like collecting stickers or playing a game with friends. A hobby is a special way to play and learn at the same time.
Hoe (tool)\n\nA hoe is a tool for working in the dirt. It has a long stick you hold and a flat metal part at the end. People use it in gardens and on farms. It helps pull out weeds, which are plants that grow where you do not want them. It can also move dirt to make rows for seeds. You might see one in a shed or in a picture of a farmer.
Hokkaidō\n\nHokkaidō is a big island in Japan. It is the most northern of Japan's four main islands. It has many mountains and some of them can spit fire and hot rocks. The winters there are very cold and full of snow. In summer, it gets warm and sunny. Many people grow food on the island, like rice and vegetables. It is a good place to see nature and wild animals.
Hola\n\nHola is a friendly word people say when they meet someone. It sounds like "oh-la" and means the same as "hello." You can hear it in places where people speak Spanish, like Spain or Mexico. When you say it, you smile and wave your hand. It is a nice way to start talking to a new friend.
Hold\n\nTo hold means to keep something in your hand or arms. It is like when you carry a toy, a book, or a cup. You can hold a ball before you throw it. When you hold a friend's hand, you feel safe and close. A mom holds her baby to keep it warm and happy.
Hole\n\nA hole is an empty space in something. It can be round like a circle. You can find a hole in the ground, in a wall, or in a piece of paper. Sometimes a hole is made by digging, like when you dig in the sand at the beach. A hole lets things go through it, like water going down a drain. A donut has a hole in the middle, and you can see right through it.
Holi\n\nHoli is a happy festival with lots of colors. It is celebrated in India and Nepal. People throw bright powder and water at each other. They sing and dance together. It happens in spring when flowers bloom. The colors mean good wins over bad. Families and friends come together to play and laugh.
Holiday\n\nA holiday is a special day when people do not go to work or school. It is a day to have fun, rest, or be with family. Some holidays happen every year at the same time, like a birthday party for a country or a person. People often put up pretty lights, sing songs, or eat yummy food on a holiday. You might see a big tree with shiny balls and a star on top for one winter holiday. Another holiday has colorful eggs and a bunny that hides them in the grass.
Hollywood\n\nHollywood is a part of a big city called Los Angeles. It is a place where people make movies and TV shows. Many visitors come to see a big white sign on a hill that says its name. They also walk on a long path with stars on the ground. Each star has the name of a famous actor or singer. Long ago, the first movie was made there, and now many movies are made there every year.
Holstein Friesian\n\nA Holstein Friesian is a kind of cow. It is big and heavy, with black and white spots all over its body. You can see it on a farm in the green fields. It gives milk every day, and people use the milk to make cheese, butter, and yogurt. A baby one is called a calf, and it is very cute with long legs.
Holy\n\nHoly means something is very special and close to God. It is not like everyday things. People use the word for places like a church or a temple. They also use it for books like the Bible. When something is holy, people treat it with great care and love.
Holy Grail\n\nThe Holy Grail is a special cup from very old stories. It is said to have been used by Jesus at a big meal long ago. Some stories say it can do amazing things, like heal sick people. Many brave people in tales look for it, but it is very hard to find. Today, people say 'Holy Grail' to mean something they want very much.
Holy Spirit\n\nThe Holy Spirit is a special part of God in the Christian faith. It is like a helper and a teacher that you cannot see. Christians believe it was there when God made the world. It also helped Jesus come as a baby to his mom Mary. After Jesus went up to heaven, the Holy Spirit came to his friends and gave them new power. It helped them speak in new words they did not know before. Many Christians believe the Holy Spirit lives inside them and guides them every day.
Home\n\nA home is a place where people live. It has walls, a roof, and a door. Inside, there are rooms like a kitchen, a bedroom, and a living room. People sleep, eat, and play in a home. It keeps them safe from rain, wind, and cold. A home can be a house, an apartment, or even a tent. It is where a family stays together and feels warm and happy.
Home appliance\n\nA home appliance is a machine that helps with jobs at home. It can be big like a fridge or small like a toaster. You find it in the kitchen, laundry room, or other rooms. It does work like keeping food cold, cooking, or washing clothes. A washing machine is one kind that cleans your shirts and pants.
Homelessness\n\nHomelessness means a person does not have a home to sleep in. It can happen when someone cannot pay for a house. Some people sleep on the street, in a car, or in a big room with many beds called a shelter. It is sad and hard because there is no warm bed, no kitchen, and no safe place to keep toys. Many cities have helpers who give food and a bed to people who need it.
Homer\n\nHomer is a person from very old stories. He told long tales about brave fighters and big trips. People say he could not see with his eyes. His stories are still read in books today.
Hometown\n\nA hometown is the town or city where you were born or where you grew up. It is a place you know very well, like the streets, the park, and the shops. Many people feel warm and happy when they think of their hometown. You might visit your hometown to see family or old friends. It can be big like a city or small like a village.
Homework\n\nHomework is work your teacher gives you to do at home. It is often on paper, like a worksheet or a page from a book. You do it after school, at a table or desk. It helps you practice what you learned in class. For example, you might read a short story and draw a picture about it.
Homicide\n\nHomicide is when one person hurts another person so badly that the hurt person dies. It is a very sad and serious thing. Police officers and judges work hard to find out what happened. It is not something children need to worry about every day, but it is a word for a very bad action. Most people never see it in real life.
Honduras\n\nHonduras is a country in the middle part of the Americas. It has warm weather and many green trees. On one side, it touches the big blue ocean. People there speak Spanish and live in towns and small villages. Many people grow bananas and other fruits on big farms. Some old stone buildings from long ago still stand there.
Honey\n\nHoney is a sweet, sticky food that bees make. It is thick and golden, like a slow-moving syrup. Bees collect tiny drops from flowers and turn them into honey inside their hive. People put honey on bread, in tea, or use it to make food taste sweet. You might see a jar of honey in your kitchen at home. It can stay good to eat for a very long time.
Honey badger\n\nA honey badger is a small, tough animal. It has a long body, short legs, and very strong claws. Its fur is black on the bottom and white on top. It lives in Africa and parts of Asia. It digs holes in the ground to sleep. It eats meat, like snakes and mice, and also some fruit. It is very brave and fights hard when it needs to. Its skin is thick and loose, so it can turn and bite even when something holds it.
Honeyeater\n\nA honeyeater is a small bird that drinks sweet juice from flowers. It has a long, thin beak and a special tongue with tiny hairs to soak up the juice. You can find it in Australia and nearby islands, hopping among trees and bushes. It also eats bugs and sometimes fruit. If you see a bird poking its beak into a bright flower, it might be a honeyeater looking for a sweet treat.
Honeyguide\n\nA honeyguide is a small bird that lives in warm places like Africa and Asia. It has brown and white feathers and a short beak. It is famous for helping people find honey. It makes a special sound and flies to a tree where bees live. When people open the tree, they take the honey, and it eats the wax and tiny bugs left behind. It does not build its own nest. It lays its egg in another bird's nest. The baby honeyguide pushes out the other eggs or chicks so it gets all the food.
Hong\n\nHong is a name that some people have. It can be a boy's name or a girl's name. You might hear it in a story or meet someone called Hong. It is a short name that is easy to say.
Hong Kong\n\nHong Kong is a big city by the sea. It has many tall buildings that touch the sky. People live and work in these tall buildings. It is a place where many boats and ships come and go. You can ride a little boat called a ferry across the water. At night, the buildings light up with many colors. It is a busy and bright place.
Honour\n\nHonour is a feeling of being good and true. It is when people think you do the right thing. Long ago, knights had honour by being brave and kind. Today, you show honour when you tell the truth or help a friend. It makes others trust you and feel proud of you.
Honshū\n\nHonshū is a very big piece of land with water all around it. It is the biggest island in the country of Japan. It has tall mountains, green forests, and many busy cities. Many people live on it, more than on almost any other island in the world. You can find big trains that go very fast there. It is next to other smaller islands, with water between them.
Hood\n\nA hood is a soft cover that is part of a coat or a jacket. It goes over your head to keep you warm and dry. You can pull it up when it is cold or rainy outside. It often has strings that you can tie under your chin. Many winter coats have a hood, and some sweatshirts have one too.
Hook\n\nA hook is a small, bent piece of metal or plastic. It has a curved end that can hold or catch things. You can find a hook on a wall to hang a coat or a bag. People also use a hook when they go fishing to catch a fish. A hook on a hanger helps keep clothes from falling down.
Hoopoe\n\nA hoopoe is a pretty bird with a special crown of feathers on its head. It has a long, thin beak and wings with black and white stripes. Its body is a warm orange-brown color. You can find it in many places across Africa, Europe, and Asia. It likes to walk on the ground and look for bugs to eat. When it is happy or scared, the feathers on its head stand up like a fan. It makes a soft sound that goes "hoop-oop-oop."
Hooray\n\nHooray is a happy shout people make when something good happens. It sounds loud and cheerful, like "Hoo-ray!" You might hear it at a birthday party when someone blows out the candles. People also say it when their team wins a game. It is a way to show you are very glad.
Hop\n\nA hop is a small, quick jump. It is when you push off the ground with one foot and land on the same foot. You can see a hop when a bunny moves across the grass. A frog also hops from one lily pad to another. Children like to hop during games like hopscotch. It is a fun way to move around.
Hope\n\nHope is a warm feeling inside. It is when you believe something good will happen. You might feel it when you wait for your birthday or a fun trip. It helps you keep trying, even when things are hard. When you see a rainbow after rain, that can give you hope.
Horizon\n\nThe horizon is the line where the sky meets the ground. It looks like a faraway line that goes all the way around you. You can see it best at the beach or in a big flat field with no trees or houses. When the sun goes down, it looks like it touches the horizon. The horizon is always far away, no matter how much you walk toward it.
Hormone\n\nA hormone is a tiny helper inside your body. It travels in your blood like a message. It tells parts of your body what to do. For example, one hormone tells your body to grow taller. Another hormone tells your tummy when it is time to eat. Hormones work slowly, but they keep your body happy and working well.
Horn\n\nA horn is a hard, pointy thing that grows on the head of some animals. It is made of the same stuff as your fingernails. You can find it on a cow, a goat, or a sheep. The animal uses it to push and fight when it feels scared. A horn is not the same as an antler, which falls off and grows back every year.
Horn (instrument)\n\nA horn is a shiny metal tube that makes music when you blow into it. It curls around in a big circle and has a wide, open end called a bell. You see it in an orchestra, where people play it with other instruments. It makes a warm, soft sound, and players press buttons called valves to change the notes. Long ago, hunters used it on a horse to send signals. Today, you might hear it in a movie or a concert.
Horn of Africa\n\nThe Horn of Africa is a big piece of land that sticks out into the sea. It is in the east part of Africa. Four countries sit on this land: Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia, and Djibouti. Many people live there, and they have different ways of life. Long ago, people in this area fought to stay free when others wanted to take their land. Today, you can see it on a map—it looks like a horn pointing into the water.
Hornbill\n\nA hornbill is a big bird with a very long, curved beak. It has a bright color on its beak, and sometimes a hard bump on top. It lives in warm places with lots of trees, like forests in Africa and Asia. It makes its nest inside a hole in a tree. The mom bird closes the hole with mud and stays inside to keep the eggs safe. The dad bird brings food through a tiny crack. When the baby birds are big enough, they break out and learn to fly.
Horned lizard\n\nA horned lizard is a small animal with a flat, round body. It has little horns on its head and a short tail. It lives in hot, dry places with sand and rocks. It eats tiny bugs like ants. When it feels scared, it can shoot a thin stream of blood from its eyes to keep other animals away. A horned lizard is sometimes called a horny toad, but it is not a toad at all.
Hornet\n\nA hornet is a big flying bug. It has a black and yellow body, six legs, and two wings. It lives in a nest made of paper, often high in a tree. It hunts other bugs like flies and caterpillars to eat. It can sting if it feels scared, and the sting hurts. You might see one near flowers or lights in the summer.
Horror fiction\n\nHorror fiction is a kind of story that is made to give you a little scare. It is a book, a movie, or a show that has spooky things in it. Sometimes it has ghosts or monsters that are not real. Other times it has bad people or sickness that can happen in real life. You might see a scary shadow or hear a creaky door in it. It is like a fun, safe way to feel a tiny bit afraid, like when you hide under a blanket during a storm.
Horse\n\nA horse is a big, strong animal with four long legs. It has a long face, big eyes, and a tail made of long hair. Horses live on farms and in fields. People ride on its back or use it to pull heavy carts. A baby horse is called a foal. It can run very fast and eats grass and hay.
Horse fly\n\nA horse fly is a kind of big, strong fly. It has big, shiny eyes that look like tiny mirrors. It can be as small as a housefly or as big as a bumblebee. You can find it near water, like ponds or rivers, on warm days. It bites animals like horses and cows to drink a little blood. The bite can hurt and make a sore spot. Only the girl horse fly bites. The boy horse fly does not bite.
Horse racing\n\nHorse racing is a sport where fast horses run a race. It happens on a big, round track. A person called a jockey sits on the horse and helps it go fast. People come to watch and cheer. Many people also guess which horse will win and put down a little money. You can see horse racing on TV or at a big field with lots of seats.
Horseradish\n\nHorseradish is a plant with a big, white root that grows under the ground. It has green leaves on top, and the root looks long and thick. People grow it in gardens, but it can spread fast if no one stops it. When you cut or grate the root, it makes a strong smell that can tickle your nose and make your eyes water. Cooks mix the grated root with vinegar to make a white sauce. This sauce is spicy and is often put on meat or in sandwiches. Some people also use it in red sauces or soups.
Horsetail\n\nHorsetail is a very old kind of plant. It has a long, thin, green stem that is empty inside, like a straw. The stem has many little rings around it, and tiny leaves grow in a circle at each ring. It looks a little like a horse's tail, which is how it got its name. You can find it growing in wet, muddy places near ponds or streams. Long, long ago, some horsetails grew as tall as big trees, but today they are much smaller. It does not make flowers or seeds. Instead, it makes tiny dust-like bits called spores that help new plants grow.
Horticulture\n\nHorticulture is the work of growing plants in a garden. It is about making flowers, fruits, and vegetables grow well. People who do this work are called gardeners. They dig in the dirt, plant seeds, and give water to the plants. They also pick out pretty flowers and tasty foods to grow. You can see horticulture in a park, a farm, or a backyard garden.
Horus\n\nHorus is a god from old stories in Egypt. He has the head of a bird called a falcon and the body of a man. People long ago drew him with a special eye that means keeping safe and getting better. They told a story that he lost his eye in a big fight, but the eye was fixed and became a sign of hope. He was the god of the sky and helped the king of Egypt. Many people in Egypt loved him and built big stone houses to say thank you.
Hose\n\nA hose is a long, bendy tube. It is made of rubber or plastic. You find it in a garden or yard. People use it to carry water from a tap to plants or to wash a car. It can spray water far when you press the end.
Hospital\n\nA hospital is a big building where sick or hurt people go to get better. It has many rooms with beds so people can stay all day and night. Doctors and nurses work there. They use special tools and machines to help fix what is wrong. Some people visit just for a short time and then go home. You might see a hospital when you drive past a tall white building with a red cross sign.
Host\n\nA host is a person who welcomes guests. He says hello and makes people feel happy when they come to a place. You might see a host at a restaurant door. He shows you where to sit and gives you a menu. At a party, a host gives out snacks and drinks. He makes sure everyone has a good time.
Hot\n\nHot means something has a lot of heat. It can feel like when you touch a warm cup of cocoa. You find hot things in the kitchen, like a stove or a toaster. The sun is very hot and warms the whole world. When you run fast, your body feels hot too.
Hot air balloon\n\nA hot air balloon is a big, round bag that flies in the sky. It has a basket under it where people stand. The bag is filled with hot air from a fire. Hot air goes up, so it lifts the balloon high. You can see it at a fair or a festival, floating like a giant ball.
Hot spring\n\nA hot spring is a pool of warm water that comes from deep under the ground. It looks like a small pond or a puddle, but the water is hot. You can find it in places with mountains. The heat comes from hot rocks far below the Earth. People like to sit in it because the warm water feels nice on the skin. Some hot springs have a funny smell, like eggs, from the rocks. You might see one on a trip to a mountain park.
Hotel\n\nA hotel is a big building with many rooms. It has a front door, a long hall, and many doors to small rooms inside. You find it in towns and near roads. When people travel far from home, they sleep in a hotel room. The room has a bed, a lamp, and a bathroom. Some hotels have a pool where you can swim. A mom and dad may pick a hotel when the family goes on a trip.
Hour\n\nAn hour is a way to measure time. It is made of sixty smaller parts called minutes. There are twenty-four hours in one full day and night. You see hours on a clock with numbers and two hands. When the long hand goes all the way around, one hour has passed. At school, you might have one hour to play outside or one hour to read a book.
House\n\nA house is a building where people live. It has walls, a roof, and a floor. The roof keeps rain and sun away. The walls keep out wind and cold. Windows let in light. Inside, there are rooms for cooking, eating, sleeping, and washing. A house can be big or small. Some houses stand alone with a yard. Others are joined side by side. A small house is sometimes called a cottage. A very big, fancy house is called a mansion. People feel safe and warm in a house. They call it their home.
Housefly\n\nA housefly is a small flying bug that often comes inside homes. It has six legs, two clear wings, and big red eyes. You can see it near food, trash, or farm animals. It buzzes around and can carry tiny germs that make people sick. A mom fly lays many eggs on old food or dead things. The eggs turn into little white worms called maggots. The maggots eat and grow, then change into a hard brown shell. Later, a grown fly comes out. That is how a new housefly is born.
Household\n\nA household is all the people who live together in one home. It can be a family with a mom, a dad, and kids. It can also be friends or other people who share a house. They eat meals together and help each other. They share things like the TV, the fridge, and the bathroom. Living together makes it easier to pay for food and bills. Your own home with the people you live with is your household.
Houston\n\nHouston is a big city in Texas. It has many tall buildings, busy streets, and lots of people. You can find a big space center there where people learn about stars and rockets. Many people in Houston work at big hospitals that help sick people get better. The city has fun sports teams that play baseball, football, basketball, and soccer. When you visit, you might see big planes at the airport or go to a park on a warm day.
Hover\n\nTo hover means to stay in one spot in the air without moving forward. It is like floating in place. A hummingbird can hover near a flower while it drinks. A helicopter can hover above the ground. You might see a toy drone hover when it stays still in the sky.
Hovercraft\n\nA hovercraft is a big machine that rides on a soft pillow of air. It has a flat bottom and a big fan on top that blows air down. This air lifts it up so it floats just above the ground or water. It can move over smooth places like a lake, a river, or even ice. People use it to carry cars and boxes across water. Some armies use it to go from water to land very fast.
How\n\nHow is a word we use to ask about the way something happens. It helps us find out the steps or the method. You can ask "How do you tie your shoes?" and someone shows you the loops and the pull. You can ask "How does a seed grow?" and learn about water, sun, and dirt. It is a small word that opens big answers.
However\n\nHowever is a word that joins two ideas. It shows that the second idea is different from the first. You might say, "I like apples. However, I do not like bananas." It helps people understand when you change your mind.
Howl\n\nA howl is a long, loud cry. It sounds like a sad song that goes up and down. You can hear it at night when a wolf calls to its friends. A dog sometimes makes this sound too, especially when it hears a siren. The wind can also howl when it blows very hard through trees or around a house.
Hua Mulan\n\nHua Mulan is a brave girl from old Chinese stories. She put on armor and went to fight in a big war so her father could stay home safe. She knew how to use a sword and was very strong. She fought for many years and did not ask for a prize. Today, people tell her story in books and movies.
Hubble Space Telescope\n\nThe Hubble Space Telescope is a big camera that floats in space. It looks like a long tube with two flat wings that catch sunlight. It flies high above the clouds, so it can see stars and planets very clearly. It takes pictures of faraway things in the sky and sends them to people on Earth. You can see its photos in books or on a computer.
Hudson Bay\n\nHudson Bay is a very big body of water in Canada. It is so big that it is one of the largest seas on Earth. It touches the land in the north, south, east, and west. It connects to two bigger oceans through narrow water paths. A long time ago, a man from England found it and gave it its name.
Hue\n\nHue is the name for a color, like red, blue, or yellow. It tells you what kind of color you see. When you look at a rainbow, each stripe has a different hue. You can mix hues to make new ones, like red and yellow make orange. A crayon box has many hues inside.
Hug\n\nA hug is when you wrap your arms around someone and hold them close. It feels warm and soft. You can give a hug to your mom, dad, friend, or even a teddy bear. A hug shows that you care about someone. It can make a sad person feel better. When you are happy, you might run and give a big hug. Sometimes people hug to say hello or goodbye.
Huge\n\nHuge means very, very big. It is bigger than big. You can see a huge elephant at the zoo. A huge mountain is so tall it touches the clouds. A huge truck can carry many things.
Hull\n\nA hull is the bottom part of a boat or a big ship. It sits in the water and keeps the boat from sinking. It is usually made of strong wood or metal. You can see it when a boat is out of the water, like on a beach or in a boat shop. It helps the boat float and move smoothly on a lake or the sea.
Hum\n\nA hum is a soft, low sound that goes on and on. It sounds like a bee flying near your ear or a fan spinning in a room. You can make a hum with your mouth closed, and it feels like a little buzz on your lips. Many machines, like a fridge or a car, make a hum when they are working. It is a quiet noise that you might hear when everything else is still.
Human\n\nA human is a person like you and me. It has two arms, two legs, a head with eyes, a nose, and a mouth. It walks on two feet and can run, jump, and play. Humans live all over the world in houses, apartments, or huts. They talk to each other with words and make friends. A human can think, feel happy or sad, and learn new things every day. It uses tools like a spoon to eat or a pencil to draw. A baby human grows inside its mom and drinks milk from her when it is small. Humans like to sing, dance, and tell stories.
Human Behavior\n\nHuman behavior is the way people act. It is what we do with our body and our words. You can see it everywhere: at home, at school, or on the playground. It can be a smile, a wave, or a hug. It can also be a cry, a shout, or a stomp. People learn how to behave from their family and friends. When you share a toy, that is kind human behavior.
Human body\n\nThe human body is the whole outside and inside of a person. It has a head, two arms, two legs, and a middle part called the trunk. Inside, there are bones that make a hard frame so you can stand up. Muscles pull on the bones to help you run and jump. The body needs food and water to grow and play. It also needs sleep to feel strong again. You can see your body in a mirror every day.
Human evolution\n\nHuman evolution is the long story of how people came to be. It started in Africa a very, very long time ago. The first people looked a bit like big, hairy apes. Over many years, they began to walk on two legs and use their hands to carry things. Their brains grew bigger, and they learned to make simple tools. Today, all people are part of one big family called humans.
Human eye\n\nThe human eye is a round part of your body that lets you see. It has a clear front part and a colored ring inside. You find two eyes on your face, one on each side of your nose. It takes in light and sends pictures to your brain so you know what you are looking at. When you look in a mirror, you can see your own eyes looking back at you.
Human geography\n\nHuman geography is a way of looking at people and places. It asks where people live and why they live there. It also looks at how people change the land around them. For example, it looks at how a town grows near a river or how people build roads. It helps us see how people and the earth work together.
Human history\n\nHuman history is the story of all people from long, long ago until today. It tells how people lived, what they ate, and where they went. Long ago, people moved from place to place to find food. They hunted animals and picked wild plants to eat. Later, they learned to grow food and stay in one spot. They built homes and made villages. Over time, people made tools from stone and learned to use fire for warmth and cooking. Today, we write things down, so we can remember our story.
Human migration\n\nHuman migration is when people move from one home to another. It can be a move to a new town, a new city, or a new country. People move because they want a better life. They look for good jobs, safe homes, and schools for their kids. Sometimes people have to move because of danger, like a big storm or a war. When they must leave their home fast, they are called refugees. Moving is hard. People may feel sad and miss their old friends. But they also bring new foods, songs, and stories to their new home.
Human rights\n\nHuman rights are rules that say how people should be treated. They mean every person is important and should be safe. These rules say you can say what you think, go to school, and play with friends. They also say no one can hurt you or take your things. Many countries write these rules down so everyone knows them. When someone does not follow the rules, it is called a wrong. People all over the world work to make sure the rules are kept.
Human settlement\n\nA human settlement is a place where people live. It can be a tiny spot with just a few houses, or a big city with many tall buildings. You find it on land, near water, or on hills. People build homes there, and they also make roads, shops, and parks. A small town with a school and a playground is one kind of human settlement.
Human skeleton\n\nA human skeleton is all the hard parts inside your body. It is made of many bones that fit together. It has a head bone called a skull, a long row of bones down your back, and a cage of bones around your chest. It also has arm bones, leg bones, and small bones in your hands and feet. It holds your body up so you can stand tall. It also keeps your soft parts safe, like your brain and heart. When you move, your bones work with your muscles to help you walk, run, and jump. You can feel some of your bones under your skin, like the hard bumps on your wrist or your knee.
Human tooth\n\nA human tooth is a small, hard white part inside your mouth. It has a top part you can see and a long root under the pink gum. You find it in your mouth, in two rows on top and bottom. It cuts and crushes food so you can swallow it. People use their front teeth to bite an apple and back teeth to chew it soft.
Humanism\n\nHumanism is a way of thinking about how people should live. It says we can use our own minds to know what is right and good. People who follow this way are called humanists. They believe in using science and facts to understand the world. They think people can be kind and fair without needing a god to tell them. They also believe that all people are important and should be treated well.
Humanitarianism\n\nHumanitarianism is being kind and helping people. It means you care about others, no matter where they come from or what they look like. A person who does this is called a humanitarian. They give food, water, or a safe place to people who are hurt or in trouble. You can see it when someone shares their snack with a friend who has none. It is like being a good helper, just because it is the right thing to do.
Humanities\n\nHumanities is a big word for learning about people. It is about the stories we tell, the songs we sing, and the pictures we paint. You find it in books at the library and in plays at the theater. It helps us understand how people feel and what they think. When you draw a picture or listen to a story, that is a little bit of humanities.
Humidity\n\nHumidity is how much water is in the air. It is not the water you see in clouds or rain. It is tiny water bits you cannot see. When the air has a lot of it, the air feels wet and sticky. When the air has only a little, the air feels dry. On a hot day with a lot of it, your skin feels sweaty and the sweat does not dry fast. On a dry day, your skin feels cool and the sweat dries quickly. People who study weather use a tool to check how much water is in the air.
Hummingbird\n\nA hummingbird is a tiny bird that can fly in a special way. It is very small, about the size of your hand. It has shiny feathers that can be green, blue, or red. You can see it in gardens where there are bright flowers. It flaps its wings so fast that they make a humming sound. It can stay in one spot in the air and even fly backwards. It drinks sweet juice from flowers with its long, thin beak. It helps flowers grow by moving yellow dust from one flower to another.
Humour\n\nHumour is a feeling that makes you laugh or smile. It happens when something is silly or funny. You can find it in a joke, a funny face, or a silly story. When you hear a knock-knock joke, that is humour. A clown at a party uses humour to make children laugh. It feels warm and happy inside.
Humpback whale\n\nA humpback whale is a very big animal that lives in the ocean. It has a long body, two long side fins, and a bumpy head. It can be as long as a big school bus. You can find it in all the oceans of the world. It eats tiny sea animals like small shrimp and little fish. It opens its big mouth and scoops up food with water, then pushes the water out. Sometimes it blows bubbles to catch its food. The boy whale sings long songs that can last for many hours. The girl whale and boy whale also make low sounds to talk to each other. A humpback whale can live for a long, long time.
Hundred\n\nA hundred is a big number. It is ten groups of ten. You can count to it with your fingers and toes many times. If you have a hundred pennies, you can trade them for a one-dollar bill. A hundred is more than the fingers on both hands, but less than the stars in the sky.
Hungarian language\n\nHungarian language is a way people talk and write. It is used by many people in a country called Hungary. It sounds different from English because it comes from a different family of languages. In Hungarian, little word parts are added to the end of a word to show things like "with" or "from." The writing uses letters that look like English letters, but some have small marks above them. If you hear someone say "szia" (see-ya), that means "hello" in Hungarian.
Hungary\n\nHungary is a country in the middle of Europe. It has no sea next to it, so it is called landlocked. Many other countries touch its sides. The land is mostly flat with big open fields, but there are some hills and a big lake called Balaton. A long river named the Danube runs through it. The biggest city is Budapest, where many people live and work. People there speak a special language that is not like most other languages nearby. They eat a thick soup called goulash and like to play with a cube puzzle that twists and turns.
Hunger\n\nHunger is a feeling in your tummy that tells you it is time to eat. It can feel like a little rumble or a soft ache. You feel it when you have not eaten for a few hours. After you eat a meal, the feeling goes away and you feel full. Some people do not have enough food, so they feel hunger a lot. That is very hard and can make them sick.
Hungry\n\nHungry is a feeling you get when your tummy is empty. It can make your tummy growl or rumble. You might feel a little tired or grumpy when you are hungry. When you eat food, the hungry feeling goes away. A snack like an apple or a cracker can help. Everyone feels hungry sometimes, and it is your body's way of saying it needs more energy.
Hunt\n\nA hunt is when a person or an animal looks for another animal to catch it. It often happens outside in the woods, fields, or water. A hunter may move very quietly and hide so the other animal does not see them. Some animals, like lions, hunt for food to eat. People may hunt for food too, or to help keep animal numbers safe. A dog can help a person hunt by using its good nose to find things.
Hunter\n\nA hunter is a person who looks for animals in the woods or fields. He walks very quietly and watches carefully. He may use a bow and arrow or a long stick called a rifle. Some hunters catch animals for food. Others help keep animal groups from getting too big. A hunter often wears bright orange so other people can see him.
Hunter-gatherer\n\nA hunter-gatherer is a person who finds food in the wild. They pick fruits, nuts, and plants that grow outside. They also catch animals like fish or rabbits to eat. Long ago, all people lived this way before farms and stores. They moved from place to place to find new food when the old spot was empty.
Hunting\n\nHunting is when a person goes out to find and catch an animal. It is an old way to get food. Long ago, people used long sticks with sharp ends. Today, some people use a bow that shoots a straight stick, or a gun that makes a loud bang. Some people hunt to eat the meat. Others hunt to keep the number of animals from getting too big. But if people hunt too much, an animal kind can go away forever. A bird called the dodo went away because of too much hunting.
Hunting dog\n\nA hunting dog is a dog that helps people find and catch animals. It has four legs, a wet nose, and a strong sense of smell. You can see it in the woods, on a farm, or by a lake with a hunter. It runs fast, sniffs the ground, and sometimes brings back a bird or a rabbit. Some hunting dogs point with their nose, some splash into water, and some dig into holes. A golden retriever is one kind of hunting dog that many kids know.
Hurdling\n\nHurdling is a running race where people jump over small walls called hurdles. It happens on a big track, like the one at school. Runners must go fast and jump high at the same time. They run a set path and jump over ten hurdles before the finish line. Some races are short, and some are longer. You can see hurdling at big sports shows like the Olympics.
Hurry\n\nHurry means to move or do something very fast. When you hurry, your legs go quick, and your heart beats a little faster. You might hurry when you are late for school or when you want to be first in line. Sometimes grown-ups say "hurry up" to help you go faster. It is the opposite of moving slow like a turtle.
Hurt\n\nHurt is a feeling you get when something bad happens to your body or your heart. It can be a small ouch, like when you bump your knee. It can also be a sad feeling inside, like when a friend says something mean. When you are hurt, you might cry or want a hug. A bandage or a kind word can help it feel better.
Husband\n\nA husband is a man who is married. He and his wife promise to be a family together. They often live in the same house and help each other every day. He might go to work, cook dinner, or play with the children. Some husbands wear a ring on their finger to show they are married.
Husbandry\n\nHusbandry is the way people take care of animals or plants. It means giving them food, water, and a safe place to live. A farmer does husbandry when he feeds his cows and collects eggs from his chickens. A gardener does husbandry when she waters her tomato plants and pulls out weeds. It is all about helping living things grow strong and healthy.
Hut\n\nA hut is a small, simple house. It has walls and a roof to keep out rain and sun. You can find a hut in a forest, on a beach, or in a village. People use it as a place to rest or sleep. It is often made of wood, mud, or straw.
Hyaena\n\nA hyaena is a wild animal that looks a bit like a big dog. It has a strong body, a thick neck, and front legs that are longer than the back legs. It lives in warm places like Africa and parts of Asia. It hunts for food at night and can eat almost every part of an animal, even the bones. A hyaena makes a loud laughing sound that you might hear in a movie about the wild.
Hybrid\n\nA hybrid is a baby animal or plant made from two different kinds of parents. It can look a little like each parent. A mule is a hybrid. Its mom is a horse and its dad is a donkey. Many garden flowers are hybrids too. People make hybrids to get plants with pretty colors or big fruit.
Hydroelectricity\n\nHydroelectricity is a kind of power that comes from moving water. It is made in big buildings called dams that sit on rivers. The dam holds back water, and when the water is let go, it spins a big wheel. That spinning makes electricity. People use it to turn on lights and run machines at home. It does not make dirty smoke like some other kinds of power. The water can be used again and again, so it never runs out. Many places near rivers use it to get their power.
Hydrogen\n\nHydrogen is a very light, invisible gas. It has no color, no smell, and no taste. You cannot see it, but it is everywhere. Most of it is in stars like the Sun. On Earth, it is part of water. Water is made of hydrogen and another gas called oxygen. When hydrogen burns, it makes water and gives off heat. People use it to help rockets fly up into space.
Hydropower\n\nHydropower is power we get from moving water. It can come from a big river, a waterfall, or the ocean. People use it to make lights turn on and machines run. A long time ago, water turned big wheels to grind corn into flour. Today, water spins a special fan called a turbine to make electricity. This electricity travels through wires to homes and schools. It is clean and does not make dirty smoke.
Hydrosphere\n\nThe hydrosphere is all the water on our planet. It is in the big oceans, in rivers, and in lakes. You can see it when you go to the beach or when it rains. People use it to make power for lights and machines. It covers most of the Earth, so our planet looks blue from space.
Hygiene\n\nHygiene means keeping your body clean. It is what you do every day to stay fresh and healthy. You wash your hands with soap and water to get rid of tiny, bad things called germs. You brush your teeth so they stay white and strong. You take a bath or a shower to wash off dirt. When you use the toilet, you wipe and wash your hands after. If you do not keep clean, you might get sick or smell bad. Good hygiene is a habit you learn when you are little, and it helps you feel good all day.
Hymn\n\nA hymn is a special song that people sing to God. It is often sung by everyone at a church. Sometimes a small group called a choir sings it while others listen. A piano or an organ plays the music. One famous hymn is called "Amazing Grace." It tells about God's love and help.
Hypnosis\n\nHypnosis is a way to make someone feel very calm and focused. It is like a deep daydream where a person listens closely to a helper. The helper talks in a soft, slow voice to guide the person into this calm state. When the person is in this state, they can follow simple ideas the helper gives. For example, the helper might say, "Your arm feels light like a balloon," and the person might feel it lift. Some people use hypnosis to feel less scared or to stop a bad habit. You might see it in a show where a person acts silly, but that is just for fun.
Hypothesis\n\nA hypothesis is a smart guess about why something happens. It is an idea that you can test to see if it is true. For example, you might guess that a plant grows faster when it gets more sunlight. Then you can do a test with two plants to find out. Scientists use hypotheses to help them learn new things. They try to prove the guess wrong, and if they cannot, the guess might be right.
Hyrax\n\nA hyrax is a small, round animal with thick fur. It has a short tail and looks a little like a big guinea pig. It lives in Africa and parts of Asia, often on rocky hills or in trees. It eats leaves, grass, and fruit. Even though it is small, it is a cousin of the elephant.
Iberian Peninsula\n\nThe Iberian Peninsula is a big piece of land in the southwest of Europe. It has water on three sides. The Mediterranean Sea is to the south and east of it, and the Atlantic Ocean is to the north and west. It is the third biggest peninsula in Europe. The name Iberia comes from a very old Greek word. Today, the land has two main countries: Spain and Portugal. Many people live there and speak Spanish or Portuguese.
Ibis\n\nAn ibis is a bird with long legs and a long, bent beak. It has feathers that can be white, brown, or black. It lives near water, like rivers and lakes. It walks in shallow water and pokes its beak into the mud to find small bugs and crabs to eat. It often stays with other ibises in big groups. Long ago, people in Egypt thought it was a special bird and made pictures of it on walls.
Ice\n\nIce is water that is very, very cold and hard. It is clear or white and feels cold and slippery. You can find it in a freezer at home or outside in winter when puddles freeze. People put ice in drinks to make them cold. It can also help a hurt spot feel better when wrapped in a cloth. In very cold places, ice covers lakes and rivers on top.
Ice age\n\nAn ice age is a very long time when the Earth is very cold. It has big sheets of ice that cover a lot of the land. You can find ice like this at the top and bottom of the Earth today. The ice moves slowly and can be as tall as a mountain. During an ice age, the sea gets lower because so much water turns into ice. Many animals with thick fur, like the woolly mammoth, lived back then. The last ice age ended a long, long time ago, before your great-great-grandparents were born.
Ice cream\n\nIce cream is a cold, sweet treat that you eat. It is made from cream, milk, and sugar. It can be many colors and flavors, like pink strawberry or brown chocolate. You can buy it from a store in a big box, or from a truck that plays music. Sometimes it comes on a stick or in a cone that you can hold. People eat it on hot days to feel cool and happy.
Ice hockey\n\nIce hockey is a game played on ice. It is played by two teams. The players wear special shoes called skates to move fast on the ice. They use long sticks to hit a small flat thing called a puck. The puck slides on the ice. Each team tries to put the puck into the other team's net to score. One player on each team stands in front of the net to stop the puck. This player is called the goalie. You can see ice hockey on TV or at a big ice rink. Many people in cold places like Canada and Russia love this game.
Ice pellets\n\nIce pellets are tiny balls of ice that fall from the sky. They look like small, hard, white beads. You see them when it is very cold outside, during a storm. They bounce and make a tapping sound when they hit the ground. Sometimes they are called sleet. Big ones can be called hailstones.
Ice sheet\n\nAn ice sheet is a huge, thick blanket of ice that covers a lot of land. It is very, very big and can be many miles deep. You can find it only in the coldest places on Earth, like the bottom and the top of the world. It stays frozen all year and never melts away. When it moves, it slides slowly over the ground like a giant frozen river. If all the ice in one big ice sheet melted, the ocean water would rise and cover more land.
Ice shelf\n\nAn ice shelf is a big, flat piece of ice. It is very thick and wide. You find it where the land meets the sea in very cold places. It can float on top of the water like a giant frozen raft. The biggest ones are in Antarctica, the coldest place on Earth.
Ice skating\n\nIce skating is moving on ice with special shoes. The shoes have a thin metal piece on the bottom. You can find ice skating at a cold rink or on a frozen pond. People do it for fun, to race, or to dance on the ice. Some skaters jump and spin in a show. Hockey players also wear these shoes to play on ice.
Iceberg\n\nAn iceberg is a big piece of ice that floats in the sea. It is mostly found in very cold water near the North Pole or the South Pole. You can only see a small part of it above the water. Most of it hides under the water where you cannot see it. It breaks off from even bigger ice called a glacier. It can float in the sea for a long time before it melts away. Ships must be careful because it can be dangerous if they hit it.
Iceland\n\nIceland is an island country far up north in the ocean. It has many mountains, hot springs, and big ice sheets called glaciers. Some parts of the ground are warm and steam comes out of the earth. People live in small towns, and the biggest town is Reykjavík. Many people there catch fish from the sea for food and to sell. It is a place where the sun stays up very late in summer and goes away early in winter.
Icon\n\nAn icon is a special picture that tells a holy story. It is painted on a flat piece of wood. You can find it in a church, where people light candles near it. It shows a person like Jesus, Mary, or an angel. People look at it when they pray. The paint is made from egg and bright colors, and the back shines with gold.
Icy\n\nIcy means very, very cold. It feels like ice when you touch it. You can find icy things in the freezer, like ice cubes or popsicles. When water gets icy, it turns hard and slippery. In winter, a sidewalk can be icy, so you have to walk slowly. An icy drink on a hot day feels nice and cool.
Idea\n\nAn idea is a thought in your head. It is like a little picture or a story you make up. You can get an idea when you play, when you read a book, or when you talk to a friend. It helps you make things, like a drawing or a new game. You can share an idea by telling someone about it.
If\n\nIf is a small word we use when we talk about something that might happen. It helps us think about choices. You can say, "If it rains, we will stay inside." It is a word you hear every day when people make plans or guess what comes next.
Igloo\n\nAn igloo is a small house made of snow. It looks like a big round ball cut in half. You find it in very cold places where snow stays on the ground for a long time. People build it by stacking blocks of snow on top of each other. It keeps them warm and safe from the cold wind. Some igloos are big enough for a few people to sit inside and even dance.
Igneous rock\n\nIgneous rock is a kind of rock made from hot, melted rock deep inside the Earth. It can be black, gray, or pink, and sometimes it has shiny little bits inside. You can find it in places where a mountain once blew out hot lava, or deep under the ground. When the melted rock cools down and gets hard, it turns into this rock. Some roads and kitchen counters are made from a strong kind called granite.
Iguanodon\n\nIguanodon is a big animal that lived a long, long time ago. It had a long tail, strong back legs, and shorter front legs. Its hands had a sharp thumb that looked like a small knife. It ate only plants and leaves. It could walk on all four legs or stand up on its two back legs to run fast. People find its old bones in the ground and put them together in big museums.
Illness\n\nAn illness is when your body does not feel good. It can make you feel hot, tired, or have a runny nose. Sometimes it makes your tummy hurt or your head ache. You might need to stay in bed and rest. A doctor can help you feel better. You can catch an illness from a friend who is sick, so it is good to wash your hands.
Illustration\n\nAn illustration is a picture that helps tell a story or show an idea. It can be a drawing, a painting, or a photo. You find it in books, newspapers, and on signs. It makes the words next to it easier to understand. For example, a picture of a red apple next to the word "apple" in your picture book is an illustration.
Image\n\nAn image is a picture of something. It can show a person, a place, or a thing. You see images in books, on TV, and on your tablet. People make images with a camera or by drawing with crayons and paint. An image helps you see what something looks like without being there.
Image scanner\n\nAn image scanner is a machine that copies a picture or a paper into a computer. It has a flat glass top and a lid that opens and closes. You put a photo or a drawing face-down on the glass. Then it shines a bright light and takes a picture of it. After that, you can see the picture on the computer screen. People use it at home, at school, or in an office to save old photos or send papers to friends.
Imagination\n\nImagination is a special power inside your head. It lets you see pictures and stories in your mind, even when your eyes are closed. You can use it to dream up a purple cat, a flying car, or a castle made of candy. It helps you play pretend games with your friends. When you draw a picture or tell a story, you are using your imagination. It is like a little movie theater that only you can see.
Imagine\n\nImagine is when you make a picture in your head. It is like a movie that only you can see. You can imagine a big red dog, a flying car, or a talking tree. When you close your eyes, you can imagine anything you want. It helps you think of new ideas and have fun. You can imagine you are a superhero or a princess. It is a special power that everyone has.
Imam\n\nAn imam is a leader for people who follow Islam. He leads the group when they pray together in a big room called a mosque. If someone has a question about their faith, they go to him for help. In small towns, he may also help the whole group make choices. He is like a teacher and a guide for the people.
Immigration\n\nImmigration is when people move from one country to live in another country. They leave their old home and go to a new place far away. It can be hard because they must learn a new way of talking and find a new house. Some people move to be safe or to find work. When they get to the new country, they may need a special card to stay. It takes a long time to become a full member of the new place.
Immune\n\nImmune means your body can fight off germs. It is like having a tiny army inside you that keeps you from getting sick. When a cold or a bug tries to get in, this army works hard to stop it. Eating good food and sleeping well helps keep it strong. Sometimes a doctor gives a shot to teach your body how to fight a new germ.
Immune system\n\nThe immune system is the body's team of tiny helpers that fight germs. It is made of special cells and parts that work together. You find it all through your body, from your skin to your blood. It stops bad things like cold bugs and cuts from making you sick. When you get a scratch, it sends helpers to fix it and eat the germs. Sometimes the spot gets red and warm, which means the helpers are busy working.
Impact crater\n\nAn impact crater is a big dent in the ground. It is made when a rock from space hits the Earth very fast. The dent is round like a bowl. You can find them on the ground, but many are old and hard to see. The Moon has many of them too. A big space rock hits the ground and makes a loud boom. Then the ground gets pushed down and broken. Some craters are very big, like a whole city. You can see pictures of them in books about space.
Impact event\n\nAn impact event is when two things in space bump into each other. It can be a rock from space hitting a big planet like Earth. The rock can be small or very big. When a small rock comes near Earth, it often burns up in the sky and makes a bright light. A big rock can make a big hole in the ground called a crater. You can see craters on the Moon. They look like big round bowls. Long ago, a huge rock hit Earth and made the dinosaurs go away. Today, people watch the sky with big telescopes to see if a rock is coming.
Impala\n\nAn impala is a kind of antelope that lives in Africa. It has reddish-brown fur and white fur on its belly, chin, and around the eyes. It has a black line on its back and a black stripe on each back leg. It lives in grassy places and woods near water. It can jump very far and run very fast to get away from big animals that want to catch it. Only the boy impala has long, curved, black horns. The girl impala has no horns. You can see an impala in a zoo or in a nature show on TV.
Impartiality\n\nImpartiality means being fair to everyone. It is when a person does not pick one side over another. A judge in a court must be impartial. She listens to both sides the same way. A jury is a group of people who also must be impartial. They decide if someone did a wrong thing after hearing all the facts. Being impartial helps make sure everyone gets a fair turn.
Imperial units\n\nImperial units are old ways to measure things. They include inches, feet, yards, and miles for how long something is. They also have ounces and pounds for how heavy something is. People in the United Kingdom used them a long time ago. Today, most places use a different set of measures called the metric system. You might still see Imperial units on some signs or in old stories.
Imperialism\n\nImperialism is when a big, strong country takes over a smaller, weaker place. It tells the people there what to do and uses their land and things. Long ago, some countries sailed far away to do this. The smaller place often had to follow new rules it did not choose. This made some people very sad and angry.
Important\n\nImportant means something matters a lot. It is a word we use when we need to pay attention. Your family is important because they love you and take care of you. Eating good food is important so you can grow big and strong. Listening to your teacher is important so you can learn new things. When something is important, we put it first.
Impressionism\n\nImpressionism is a way of painting. It started a long time ago in a country called France. Paintings in this style use many small, quick brush marks. The colors are often bright and sunny. Artists liked to paint outside, not inside a room. They painted things they saw every day, like trees, water, and people. When you look at the painting up close, you see spots and lines. When you step back, the picture looks soft and full of light.
In\n\nIn is a small word that tells where something is. It means inside a place or a thing. You can say the toy is in the box, or the milk is in the cup. It also works for time, like in the morning or in the summer. When you are in your room, you are inside it.
Inanna\n\nInanna is a goddess from very old stories. She is the goddess of love, war, and making things grow. People long ago in a place called Sumer told stories about her. She was also called the Queen of Heaven. Her special signs were a lion, a dove, and a star with eight points. The city of Uruk was her special home.
Inca\n\nThe Inca were people who lived long ago in the mountains of South America. They built big stone cities high up where clouds touch the ground. One famous city they made is called Machu Picchu. They grew food like corn and potatoes on steps cut into the hills. They used a special way to send messages with knotted strings. Today, people visit the old stone walls to see how the Inca lived.
Inca Empire\n\nThe Inca Empire was a big group of people who lived long ago. They lived high up in the mountains of South America. They built strong houses from big stones that fit together without any sticky stuff. They grew food like corn and potatoes on flat steps cut into the hills. They made roads and bridges to walk from one place to another. They had a king called the Sapa Inca. They used a special way to count and remember things with knots on strings.
Incense\n\nIncense is a stick or cone that makes nice-smelling smoke when you light it. It is long and thin, like a pencil, and has a special smell inside. You can find it in some homes, temples, or quiet rooms. People light one end and let it burn slowly, so the room fills with a soft, sweet smell. It helps people feel calm and peaceful. Some incense smells like flowers, and some smells like wood or fruit.
Inch\n\nAn inch is a way to measure how long something is. It is a small length, about as long as your thumb from the tip to the first line. You can find inches on a ruler or a measuring tape. People use it to measure small things like a toy car or a piece of paper. In some places, like the United States, people use inches to say how tall they are.
Inclined plane\n\nAn inclined plane is a flat surface that is tilted, like a ramp. It helps move heavy things up or down with less push or pull. You can find it on a playground slide, a sloping road, or a ramp for a wheelchair. People use it to lift a box onto a truck without lifting straight up. A wedge, like a doorstop, is two inclined planes put together.
Include\n\nInclude means to put something inside a group. When you make a list of your toys, you include your favorite bear. If you play a game with friends, you include everyone so no one feels left out. It is the opposite of leaving something out.
Income tax\n\nIncome tax is money that people give to the government. It is a small part of the money a person earns from a job. The government uses it to build roads, schools, and parks. When a grown-up works, their boss takes a little bit of their pay and sends it to the government. People who have their own shop or business also give a part of what they earn. Not all money is taxed — a small amount is left for the person to keep. The more money a person earns, the bigger the part they give. This helps everyone share the cost of things we all use.
India\n\nIndia is a big country in Asia. It has many people, more than any other country. It looks like a big triangle on the map, with water on three sides. You can find it near the Indian Ocean. Many people in India speak different languages and eat spicy food. They celebrate colorful festivals with lights and dancing. A famous building there is the Taj Mahal, which is made of white stone.
Indian\n\nIndian means something or someone from the country of India. It is a big, warm place with many people, spicy food, and colorful clothes. You can see Indian flags with orange, white, and green stripes. Indian music has drums and singing, and Indian dances use hands and feet in pretty ways. Many Indian families eat rice and bread called naan.
Indian Ocean\n\nThe Indian Ocean is a very big body of water. It is one of the biggest oceans on Earth. It touches many lands: Asia sits above it, Africa sits to one side, and Australia sits to the other side. The water is deep and blue. Big ships sail on it to carry things from one country to another. Many fish and sea animals live in it. People swim and play on the beaches next to it.
Indian philosophy\n\nIndian philosophy is a way of thinking about big questions. It asks things like: Who are we? Why are we here? It started a long, long time ago in India. People who study it think about the world, the mind, and how to live a good life. Some of these ideas are very old, from many hundreds of years ago. They are written in special books. Some people use these ideas when they sit quietly and think, or when they try to be kind to others. It is like a big tree with many branches, each one a little different.
Indigenous peoples\n\nIndigenous peoples are the first people who lived in a place. They were there long before other people came from far away. They have their own ways of talking, singing, and making art. Some live in the same land their great-great-grandparents lived in. They know a lot about the plants, animals, and rivers near their home. Today, many people work hard to keep their stories and ways safe.
Indigo\n\nIndigo is a deep blue color. It looks like the dark sky just before night. You can find it in some flowers, like the indigo plant, and in blue jeans. People use it to dye cloth a pretty blue. A rainbow has indigo between blue and violet.
Indonesia\n\nIndonesia is a big country made of many islands. It has green forests, tall mountains, and warm blue water all around. Many people live there, and they speak different languages. You can find it on a map near the big ocean. People in Indonesia grow rice and fruits, and they like to fly kites. Some islands have hot mountains that smoke and shake.
Indonesian language\n\nIndonesian language is the main language people speak in the country of Indonesia. It is also called Bahasa Indonesia. Many people in Indonesia speak it at home and at school. It is used on TV, in books, and when people talk to each other. Some words in Indonesian come from other languages like Dutch, English, and Arabic. People in other countries like Australia and Japan also learn Indonesian in school.
Inductive reasoning\n\nInductive reasoning is a way of thinking. It means you look at many small things and then guess a big rule. For example, if you see water go down a hill every time, you guess water always goes down. It is not always right, but it helps people start learning. Scientists use it to make a guess, then they test the guess to see if it is true.
Indus\n\nIndus is the name of a very long river. It flows through mountains and flat lands in a faraway place called Asia. Long, long ago, people built big cities next to it. They used the water to grow food and to travel in boats. Today, people still live near it and use its water.
Indus River\n\nThe Indus River is a very long river in Asia. It flows through big lands called Tibet, Kashmir, and Pakistan. It is the longest river in Pakistan and is a special sign for the country. Many smaller rivers join it along the way. The water from it helps farmers grow food in dry places. Without it, the land would be too dry for plants.
Indus Valley Civilisation\n\nThe Indus Valley Civilisation was a very old group of people who lived a long, long time ago. They built big cities near a river called the Indus. Their houses were made of bricks, and they had streets that were straight and clean. They made pots, toys, and pretty beads from stones. People today find old things they left behind buried in the ground. It was one of the first big groups of people to live in cities.
Industrial\n\nIndustrial means things made in big buildings called factories. It is about making lots of things, like cars, toys, or clothes, using big machines. You can see industrial places where there are tall smokestacks and big trucks. People work there to put parts together. The things they make go to stores for us to buy.
Industrial park\n\nAn industrial park is a big area with many buildings where people make things. It has big, boxy buildings and tall pipes that let out steam. You can find it far from houses, near big roads or train tracks. Workers go there to build cars, make food, or pack boxes. Trucks and trains bring things in and take things out all day.
Industrial Revolution\n\nThe Industrial Revolution was a time when people started using big machines to make things. It began long ago in a country called Britain. Before this time, people made things by hand at home. After, they used machines in large buildings called factories. A machine called the steam engine helped power the factories and trains. Many people moved from farms to towns to work in the factories. This changed how people lived and worked every day.
Industrialisation\n\nIndustrialisation is when people use big machines to make things. It changed how people work and live. Long ago, one person made a whole shoe by hand. Now, many people in a factory each do one small part, and machines help them. This way, they can make many more shoes in a day. Towns grew bigger because people moved there for factory jobs. It started a long time ago and spread to many places.
Inequality\n\nInequality is a way to compare two numbers or amounts. It tells you which one is bigger or smaller. You see it in math class when you learn about numbers. It uses signs like a wide open mouth that always wants to eat the bigger number. For example, if you have 5 cookies and your friend has 3, you can say 5 is greater than 3. That is an inequality.
Inertia\n\nInertia is a rule about how things move. It says a thing that is not moving will stay still until something pushes or pulls it. A thing that is moving will keep moving the same way until something stops it or turns it. You can see it when you ride in a car. If the car stops fast, your body wants to keep going forward. That is inertia. It is also why a ball sits on the floor until you kick it.
Infant\n\nAn infant is a very young baby. It is small and cannot walk or talk yet. You find an infant at home with its mom and dad. It drinks milk and sleeps a lot. When it is hungry or tired, it cries. A big person holds it gently and sings soft songs.
Infantry\n\nInfantry is a group of people in the army who fight on their own two feet. They do not ride in big trucks or on animals when they fight. They carry guns and other tools to keep safe. They walk on the ground and work together as a team. It is a very hard and brave job.
Infection\n\nAn infection is when tiny living things get inside your body and make you feel sick. It can happen in your throat, your tummy, or your skin. These tiny things are so small you cannot see them with your eyes. They grow and make more of themselves, which hurts your body. You might get a fever, a cough, or a runny nose. You can catch an infection from a friend who is sick, like when they sneeze near you. Washing your hands with soap and water helps keep the tiny things away. A doctor can give you special medicine to help you feel better.
Inference\n\nInference is a way to figure out something new from things you already know. It is like a puzzle in your head. You use clues to guess what will happen next. For example, if you see dark clouds in the sky, you can guess it might rain soon. People use it every day without thinking. When you hear a loud bark, you know a dog is near.
Infinity\n\nInfinity is an idea about things that never end. It is not a number you can count to, like 1, 2, or 3. You can think of it like a line that goes on and on forever, with no stop. In math, people use it to talk about how many numbers there are. For example, you can count 1, 2, 3, and keep going without ever reaching the last number. That is one kind of infinity. There are also bigger kinds, like all the numbers between 0 and 1. Infinity helps us understand things that have no end.
Inflation\n\nInflation is when prices go up. It means your money buys less than before. A candy bar that cost one coin might cost two coins later. You can see it at the store when the same toy gets a bigger price tag. It happens when there is too much money and not enough things to buy.
Influenza\n\nInfluenza is a sickness that makes your body feel bad. It is also called the flu. When you have it, you may cough, have a hot head, and your body may hurt. It spreads when a sick person coughs or sneezes tiny wet drops into the air. You can catch it by breathing those drops or touching things they land on. A shot from the doctor can help keep you from getting very sick. It is most common in the cold winter months.
Information\n\nInformation is what you learn when someone tells you something or when you read a book. It is like a message that helps you know more. You can find it in many places, like a picture, a story, or a song. A teacher gives you information when she tells you the names of colors. A stop sign gives you information when it tells you to stop. It helps you understand the world around you.
Information Age\n\nThe Information Age is a time when people use computers and the internet a lot. It started many years ago when a tiny part called a transistor was made. This part helps computers think and talk to each other. Before this age, people used big machines in factories. Now, they use small screens and phones to learn, play, and share pictures. You can see it when you watch a video on a tablet or talk to Grandma on a phone.
Information technology\n\nInformation technology is a way people use computers and phones to share and keep information. It helps us send messages, look at pictures, and watch videos. You can find it at home, at school, and in stores. It lets you play games on a tablet or talk to Grandma on a video call. When you see a grown-up typing on a laptop, that is information technology at work.
Infrastructure\n\nInfrastructure is all the big things people build to help us live. It includes roads, bridges, and pipes that bring water to your house. It also has schools, hospitals, and places where people work. When you turn on the tap, clean water comes out because of pipes under the ground. When you go to the park, you walk on a path that is part of infrastructure. Buses and trains run on roads and tracks that are infrastructure too. Without it, life would be much harder.
Inhaler\n\nAn inhaler is a small tool that helps people breathe better. It looks like a little tube or box with a mouth part. You hold it up to your mouth and press it, and a puff of medicine goes in. People with asthma use it when their chest feels tight. You might see a friend at school use one before running.
Inheritance\n\nInheritance is when someone's things go to family after they die. It can be a house, money, or a special toy. A paper called a will says who gets what. Sometimes only boys get it, and sometimes only girls. The person who gets the things is called an heir. Some places ask for a tax on what you get.
Injury\n\nAn injury is a hurt on your body. It can be a cut, a bump, or a bruise. You can get it when you fall down, bump into something, or touch something hot. Sometimes it happens by accident, like when you trip on the sidewalk. A doctor or a grown-up can help clean it and put a bandage on it. It gets better when you rest and take care of it.
Ink\n\nInk is colored water that helps people write and draw. It can be black, blue, red, or any color. You find it inside a pen, a marker, or a stamp pad. When you push a pen on paper, it leaves a line or a shape. Some ink is wet and can smudge if you touch it too soon. A ballpoint pen has thick ink that dries fast, so it does not make a mess.
Inn\n\nAn inn is a small house where people can sleep when they are away from home. It has a bed, a blanket, and a pillow. You can find it along a road or in a town. A tired traveler stops at an inn to rest for the night. In the morning, they eat breakfast and then go on their way. It is like a cozy home for a short stay.
Inner Mongolia\n\nInner Mongolia is a big piece of land in the north of China. It has wide, open fields of grass where horses and sheep can run. Many people there live in round, white tents called yurts. Some people ride horses and take care of animals. The land is very big, but not many people live there. In the biggest city, called Hohhot, you can see tall buildings and busy streets.
Inorganic\n\nInorganic means something is not from a living thing. It does not come from a plant or an animal. Rocks, water, and air are inorganic. A toy made of plastic is also inorganic. You can find inorganic things all around you, like the sand at the playground or the metal spoon in your kitchen.
Inorganic Chemistry\n\nInorganic chemistry is a kind of science about stuff that is not alive. It looks at things like rocks, metals, and water. You can find these things all around you, like the salt on your food or the iron in a pan. People use it to make glass, clean water, and build strong houses. A shiny gold ring is an example of something it studies.
Input\n\nInput is what you put into something. It can be words you type on a computer, a button you press, or a sound you make. When you talk to a toy and it moves, your voice is the input. It is the start of how a machine or game knows what to do next.
Insect\n\nAn insect is a tiny animal with six legs. It has a hard shell on the outside of its body. Its body has three parts: a head, a middle part, and a back part. Most insects have wings and can fly. You can find insects almost everywhere on land, like in gardens, parks, and forests. Some insects, like ants and bees, live in big groups. Others, like butterflies, have pretty wings. A ladybug is a small, round insect with red and black spots. Insects eat many things, like leaves, nectar, or other tiny bugs.
Inside\n\nInside means the part of something that is not outside. It is the space you see when you open a door, a box, or a bag. You find it in your house, in a closet, or in your toy chest. When you go into a room, you are inside that room. A cookie has a soft inside under the hard outside.
Instead\n\nInstead means you pick one thing and not another. It is a word that helps you choose. When you want juice instead of milk, you say no to milk and yes to juice. You can use it when you change your mind, like playing with blocks instead of a puzzle. It helps you tell people what you really want.
Instinct\n\nAn instinct is something an animal does without thinking or learning. It is born with it. A baby sea turtle knows to walk to the ocean right after it comes out of its egg. It does not need a mom to show it the way. A baby bird opens its mouth wide for food when a parent comes near. It does not learn this; it just does it. A bee dances to tell other bees where to find flowers. It never went to school to learn the dance. These are all instincts. They help animals stay safe and find food.
Institution\n\nAn institution is a set of rules that people follow together. It can be a big group, like a school or a church, or a way of doing things, like saying "please" and "thank you." It helps people know what to do and how to act. You can find it in many places, like your town or your home. It makes life more fair and safe for everyone. For example, a family is an institution because it has rules, like sharing toys and listening to parents.
Instrument\n\nAn instrument is a tool that makes music. It can be big like a piano or small like a flute. You hit it, blow into it, or move your fingers on it to make sounds. People play instruments in bands, at school, or at home for fun. A guitar is an instrument with strings you can strum.
Insurance\n\nInsurance is a promise to help when something bad happens. You pay a little money every month to a big company. If your toy breaks or you get sick, it gives you money to fix it. It is like a safety net that catches you. There are different kinds. One kind helps if you get hurt. Another kind helps with your house or car. People who are good at math decide how much you pay each month.
Integer\n\nAn integer is a whole number. It has no little parts after a dot, like 1, 2, or 3. It can be a counting number, like 5, or a number below zero, like -2. Zero is also an integer. You see integers when you count your fingers or when you look at a clock.
Integrate\n\nIntegrate means to put things together so they work as one. When you mix red and blue paint, you integrate the colors to make purple. In a puzzle, you integrate all the pieces to see the whole picture. At school, you integrate new words with old words to tell a longer story.
Integrated Circuit\n\nAn integrated circuit is a tiny flat piece that holds many tiny electric parts. It looks like a small black box with little metal legs. You can find it inside phones, computers, and toys. It helps these things think and remember. When you press a button on a toy, it tells the toy what to do.
Intellectual\n\nIntellectual means being good at thinking and learning. It is a word for a person who likes to read, ask questions, and figure things out. You might see an intellectual person at a library or a school. They enjoy solving puzzles and learning new facts. A teacher or a scientist is often an intellectual person.
Intellectual disability\n\nIntellectual disability is a problem with the brain. It makes it harder for a person to think, learn, and do everyday things. A child with this problem may need extra help at home and at school. Some people are born with it, and some get it when they are very young. With love and teaching, they can still learn many things and be happy.
Intelligence\n\nIntelligence is how well your brain can think and learn. It helps you solve puzzles, remember things, and figure out new games. You use it when you count your toys or find a lost shoe. Some people learn fast, and some take more time, but everyone has it. Animals like dogs and birds also use their own kind of intelligence to find food or play.
Intensive farming\n\nIntensive farming is a way of growing food where people use many tools and helpers to get a lot of food from a small piece of land. It uses big machines like tractors to dig the ground and pick the food. Farmers also put special plant food called fertilizer on the ground to help plants grow fast. They spray things to keep bugs away from the plants. Animals like cows and chickens are often kept in big buildings with many other animals. This way of farming gives us lots of food, but it can make the water and air dirty. Some people worry that the animals are not happy in small spaces.
Interaction\n\nInteraction is when two things or people do something together. It is like a back-and-forth game. When you talk to a friend and they talk back, that is interaction. When you pet a dog and it wags its tail, that is interaction. You can see it when you play catch with a ball. It happens every day when you say hello and someone says hello back.
Interchangeable parts\n\nInterchangeable parts are pieces that are all made the same. It means one part can fit in any toy or tool of the same kind. Long ago, people made each thing by hand, so parts were not the same. A man named Eli Whitney used machines to make many parts that were all alike. Later, Henry Ford used this idea to build cars fast. He made many cars with the same parts, so fixing them was easy. Today, many things you use, like a toy with blocks that snap together, have interchangeable parts.
Interest\n\nInterest is the extra money you pay when you borrow money. It is also the extra money you get when you let someone use your money. Think of it like a small fee added on top. If you borrow one coin and the interest is one penny, you give back one coin and one penny. Sometimes the extra money grows over time, like a snowball getting bigger as it rolls. Interest can also mean something you like a lot, like a favorite toy or game. When you say "I have an interest in trains," it means you really like trains and want to learn more about them.
Interested\n\nInterested means you really want to know more about something. When you are interested, your eyes get big and you listen closely. You might ask a grown-up a lot of questions about it. It feels like a happy, curious feeling inside you. You can be interested in a new toy, a bug on the ground, or a story someone tells you.
Interesting\n\nInteresting means something makes you want to look, listen, or learn more. It can be a fun toy, a pretty picture, or a story that makes you smile. You might find it in a book, at the park, or when a friend shows you a new trick. When something is interesting, you feel happy and curious. A bright red bug on a leaf can be interesting because you want to watch what it does.
Interior design\n\nInterior design is making the inside of a room look nice and work well. It picks the colors, the soft chairs, the rugs, and where to put the lamp. You see it in your house, in a store, or at the doctor’s office. A person who does this job helps a room feel cozy and easy to use. For example, they might put a soft rug next to your bed so your feet feel warm in the morning.
Interjection\n\nAn interjection is a short word or sound that shows a strong feeling. It can be a happy word like "Yay!" or a sad word like "Oh no!" You say it when something happens fast, like when you get a surprise or feel a little hurt. It often stands all by itself, and you say it in a loud or quick way. When you see a big dog and say "Wow!" that is an interjection. When you drop your toy and say "Oops!" that is one too.
Internal Combustion Engine\n\nAn internal combustion engine is a machine that makes cars and trucks move. It burns fuel, like gas, inside a small space to make power. This power turns the wheels so the car can go. You can find it under the hood of most cars on the road. When you hear a car start with a vroom sound, that is the engine working.
Internal Structure Of Earth\n\nThe inside of Earth has three big parts. It has a hard outer skin called the crust. Under that is a hot, soft part called the mantle. At the very middle is a super-hot ball called the core. The crust is where we live and where the oceans sit. The mantle is so hot that rock moves very slowly, like thick honey. The core is made of metal and is as hot as the sun. We cannot dig down to see these parts, but scientists know they are there.
International Date Line\n\nThe International Date Line is an invisible line on the Earth. It runs from the top to the bottom of the world in the big ocean. When you cross it going one way, the day changes to the next day. When you cross it going the other way, the day goes back one day. It helps people all over the world know what day it is.
International Red Cross And Red Crescent Movement\n\nThe International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement is a big group of helpers. It has a red cross or a red moon on a white flag. You can see it in many countries when people need help after a storm, a fire, or a war. They give food, water, and a safe place to sleep. They also help sick people feel better. Many grown-ups wear a vest with the red cross or red moon when they work.
International Space Station\n\nThe International Space Station is a big house that flies in space. It goes around the Earth way up high. People from many countries built it together. Astronauts live inside it for many months. They sleep in bags stuck to the wall so they do not float away. They eat food from pouches and drink from tubes. It has no up or down because there is very little pull from the Earth. The sun rises and sets many times each day there. Astronauts look out the window and see the whole Earth below.
International trade\n\nInternational trade is when people in one country send things to people in another country. It is like swapping toys with a friend who lives far away. A country might send food, clothes, or toys to another country. Then the other country sends back different things. Sometimes countries make rules about what can be sent. When countries agree to trade freely, it is called free trade.
Internet\n\nThe Internet is a big, invisible web that connects computers and phones all over the world. It lets people send messages, watch videos, and play games with friends far away. You can find it on a computer, a tablet, or a phone when you open a browser. It helps you see pictures, read stories, and talk to Grandma on a video call. For example, when you watch a cartoon on a tablet, that cartoon comes to you through the Internet.
Internet meme\n\nAn internet meme is a funny picture, video, or saying that people share online. It can be a silly face, a cute animal, or a short joke. You see it on phones, tablets, and computers when you watch videos or look at pictures. People send it to friends to make them laugh. Sometimes it has words on top of a picture. A meme can change a little bit each time someone shares it.
Interpersonal relationship\n\nAn interpersonal relationship is a bond between people. It is like a bridge that connects two or more hearts. You find it in families, at school, and with friends. It grows when people share things they like, play together, and help each other. A child and a parent have this bond. Friends who laugh and share toys also have it.
Interview\n\nAn interview is a talk between two people. One person asks questions, and the other person answers them. You might see an interview on TV when a host talks to a singer or an actor. Sometimes a grown-up goes to an interview to get a new job. They sit in a room and answer questions about what they can do. An interview helps people learn more about someone.
Interviewer\n\nAn interviewer is a person who asks questions. He talks to people to learn about them. You might see him on TV when he talks to a famous singer or actor. He also helps when someone wants a new job by asking about what they can do. He listens carefully and writes down the answers.
Intimacy\n\nIntimacy is a warm, close feeling between people. It is when you feel very safe and loved with someone. You can have it with your mom or dad when you hug or read a book together. You can also have it with a best friend when you share a secret or play a game. It is not just about touching—it is about feeling happy and close inside. When you feel intimacy, you know the other person cares about you a lot.
Into\n\nInto is a small word that tells us something is moving inside. You use it when a ball rolls into a box or a cat jumps into a basket. It shows the way from outside to inside. When you walk into your room, you go from the hall to the inside of the room. It is a word you hear and say many times every day.
Introduce\n\nIntroduce means to tell someone about a new person or thing. When you meet a new friend, you say your name and ask for theirs. You can also introduce a toy to your friend by showing it and saying what it does. It helps people get to know each other.
Introspection\n\nIntrospection is when you look inside your own mind. It is like sitting quietly and thinking about what you feel or why you did something. You can do it anywhere, like in your room or under a tree. It helps you understand if you are happy, sad, or angry. For example, after you cry, you might think about why you cried.
Inuit\n\nInuit are people who live in very cold, snowy places far up north. They have warm, thick coats made from animal skins. You can find them in parts of Canada, Greenland, and Alaska. They hunt for food like fish, seals, and whales. They use dogs to pull sleds over the snow. Long ago, they built houses from snow called igloos. Today, many live in regular houses but still hunt and fish.
Invention\n\nAn invention is a new thing that someone makes for the first time. It can be a toy, a tool, or a big machine. Before it was made, no one had ever seen it. The computer was an invention long ago. Cars and plastic bottles are inventions too. The person who makes it is called an inventor. Sometimes an invention helps people do a job faster or have more fun. A new kind of pencil with a built-in eraser is a small invention. A new story with made-up people is also an invention.
Inventor\n\nAn inventor is a person who makes new things. He thinks of ideas that no one has thought of before. He might build a tool, a toy, or a machine that helps people. You can find inventors in workshops or labs, drawing plans and trying again and again. For example, the person who made the first light bulb was an inventor. His work makes our lives easier and more fun.
Invertebrate\n\nAn invertebrate is an animal that has no backbone. It does not have hard bones inside its body. Many invertebrates live in the sea, like jellyfish and crabs. Some live on land, like bugs and worms. A butterfly is an invertebrate you can see in a garden.
Investment\n\nInvestment is when you put money into something to get more money later. It is like planting a tiny seed and waiting for a big plant to grow. People put money in a bank, and the bank gives a little extra money back. Some people buy a small part of a big company, hoping the company grows. It takes time, and sometimes you must wait a long while. A grown-up might save coins in a jar to buy a big toy later—that is a simple kind of investment.
Invisible\n\nInvisible means you cannot see it with your eyes. Air is invisible, but you can feel it when the wind blows. Some things are invisible because they are very small, like tiny bits of dust. A ghost in a story is often invisible too. Even when something is invisible, it can still be real and touchable.
Invite\n\nAn invite is a kind note that asks someone to come to a fun time. It can be a pretty card or a message on a phone. You might get an invite for a birthday party, a play date, or a picnic. When you get one, it tells you where to go and what time to be there. You can also send an invite to a friend when you want them to play with you.
Io (moon)\n\nIo is a moon that goes around the big planet Jupiter. It is a little bigger than our own moon. It has many, many hot mountains that shoot out fire and red-hot rocks. These are called volcanoes. The ground on Io is yellow, orange, and red from all the hot stuff that comes out. It is always changing because new hot rocks cover the old ones. You can see pictures of Io in space books. It looks like a pizza with bright colors.
Ionian Sea\n\nThe Ionian Sea is a big body of water. It is part of a bigger sea called the Mediterranean. It touches the land of Italy on one side and Greece on the other side. Many pretty islands sit in it, like Corfu and Zante. Big boats called ferries carry people and cars across it. The ground under it sometimes shakes, which can make waves.
Iran\n\nIran is a big country far away. It has tall mountains and dry, flat land. Many people live there, and they speak a language called Persian. Long ago, it was called Persia. The capital city is Tehran. People in Iran make beautiful rugs with bright colors and patterns. They also write poems and paint pictures. A long time ago, there were kings and big empires there. Today, many families live in cities and villages. Some people grow food on farms. Iran has a lot of oil deep under the ground. Oil is used to make cars and trucks go. It is a very old place with many stories.
Iraq\n\nIraq is a country far away. It is in a part of the world called Asia. It has two big rivers that give water to the land. The land between the rivers is very old and people lived there a long, long time ago. The biggest city is called Baghdad. The weather is very hot and dry. Iraq has a lot of oil under the ground. Oil is a black liquid that can be turned into gas for cars.
Ireland\n\nIreland is a big island in the ocean. It is green and has many hills, fields, and lakes. It is made of two parts: one part is its own country, and the other part is joined with a bigger country nearby. Many people live on the island, and they speak English. A long time ago, people built big stone houses that you can still see today. The island is known for music, dancing, and stories. It rains often, so the grass stays very green.
Iris\n\nAn iris is a pretty flower that grows in gardens. It has tall green stems and big petals that can be purple, blue, yellow, or white. You can find it in sunny spots where the ground is not too wet. People plant it to make their yards look bright and happy. In spring, it opens up and looks like a little flag waving in the wind.
Iris (plant)\n\nAn iris is a pretty flower that grows in gardens. It has tall green stems and big, colorful petals. The petals can be purple, blue, yellow, white, or many other colors. It has three outer petals that hang down and three inner petals that stand up. Some kinds have soft, fuzzy hairs in the middle. People plant irises in the ground, and they come back every year. Butterflies and tiny birds like to visit the flower. People also cut the stems and put the flowers in a vase to make a room look bright and happy.
Irish Sea\n\nThe Irish Sea is a big body of water. It sits between Ireland and Great Britain. It is very deep in some spots. Ships carry people and things across it every day. Many fish live in it, like sharks and dolphins. People also catch fish and shellfish there for food. Big machines in the sea make power from wind. It is a busy and important sea.
Iron\n\nIron is a strong, gray metal. It is found deep in the ground and in rocks. People dig it up and use it to make many things. It is used to build bridges, cars, and tall buildings. When iron gets wet, it can turn red and flaky. That red stuff is called rust. Iron is also inside our bodies. It helps our blood carry air to all parts of us. Some foods like meat and cereal have iron in them to keep us healthy.
Iron Age\n\nThe Iron Age is a time long ago when people learned to make tools from iron. It came after the time when people used stone and then bronze. Iron is a strong, dark metal that can be shaped into sharp things like swords, knives, and plows. People dug iron out of the ground and heated it in a very hot fire. They made better tools for farming and building. This helped towns grow bigger. You can see old iron tools in a museum today.
Ironing\n\nIroning is a way to make clothes flat and smooth. It uses a warm, heavy tool called an iron. The iron gets hot, and you push it over the cloth to take out the bumps and lines. You do it on a soft, flat board. Some clothes need a little water to turn into steam, which helps the iron work better. You can see a grown-up doing ironing at home when shirts and pants come out of the dryer.
Iroquois\n\nThe Iroquois are a group of Native American tribes who lived in the northeastern part of what is now the United States. They are also called the Haudenosaunee, which means People of the Longhouse. A longhouse is a big wooden house where many families lived together. They grew corn, beans, and squash for food. They also hunted deer and fished in rivers. Today, many Iroquois people live in New York and Canada.
Irregular galaxy\n\nAn irregular galaxy is a big group of stars that does not have a neat shape. It is not round like a ball and does not have pretty arms like a pinwheel. It looks messy and spread out. You can find many of them in space, far away from Earth. Some were once a nice shape but got pulled and bent by other galaxies nearby. It has lots of gas and tiny dust bits floating inside.
Irrigation\n\nIrrigation is a way to give water to plants when there is not enough rain. It uses pipes, hoses, or buckets to bring water to the fields. You can see it on farms where big sprinklers spray water over the crops. Some farmers use small tubes that drip water right near the plant roots. This helps the plants grow big and strong, even on hot, dry days.
Irrigation sprinkler\n\nAn irrigation sprinkler is a tool that sprays water on plants. It has a head with small holes where water comes out. You can find it in a garden or on a farm. It helps grass, flowers, and food plants grow when there is not enough rain. Some sprinklers stay in one spot, and some move around. When it is on, it makes a soft hissing sound and the water looks like tiny rain drops.
Is\n\nIs is a small word we use every day. It helps us say what something is or how it is. You can say "The sky is blue" or "The cat is soft." It is a word that connects a thing to a word that tells more about it. You hear it in stories, songs, and when people talk.
Isaac\n\nIsaac is a person from a very old story. He is the son of a man named Abraham and a woman named Sarah. When he was a baby, his parents laughed because they were so happy and surprised. He grew up and had a wife named Rebecca. They had two boys named Esau and Jacob. Many people still read the story of Isaac in a big book called the Bible.
Ishmael\n\nIshmael is a boy from a very old story. He was the first son of a man named Abraham. His mother was a helper named Hagar. When he was a baby, he and his mom had to walk far away into a hot, dry place. They ran out of water, but a kind angel showed them a well. He grew up and had a big family with twelve sons. Some people tell stories that his family became many people in a big desert land.
Isis\n\nIsis is a goddess from old Egyptian stories. She is a kind and powerful helper. She takes care of moms and kids, and she can make sick people feel better. People drew her with big wings, a special hat shaped like a chair, and a cross with a loop on top. She is the mom of a god named Horus. Long ago, many people in Egypt and faraway lands loved her and built pretty houses to say thank you.
Islam\n\nIslam is a way of life for many people around the world. It teaches that there is one God, who made everything. People who follow Islam are called Muslims. They have a special book called the Quran, which they believe are God's words. Muslims pray five times every day, facing a holy city called Mecca. They often go to a quiet building called a mosque to pray together. Before praying, they wash their hands, face, and feet to be clean. Many Muslims also give food or money to help people who have less. Once a year, they do a special month of not eating during the day, called fasting. This helps them feel closer to God and think about others. Islam is one of the biggest ways of life in the world, with many families and children following it.
Islamic architecture\n\nIslamic architecture is a way of building things. It uses big round tops called domes and tall thin towers called minarets. You can see it in places where people pray, called mosques. It has pretty shapes and writing on the walls instead of pictures of people or animals. The writing is often from a special book. The walls and floors have small colored tiles that make bright patterns. Many old buildings in hot, sandy lands look like this.
Islamic calendar\n\nThe Islamic calendar is a way to count days and months. It uses the Moon to tell time, not the Sun. It has 12 months, and each month has 29 or 30 days. A whole year is about 354 days long. That is a little shorter than the year we use every day. People use it to know when special Muslim days happen. The months move through all the seasons over many years.
Island\n\nAn island is a piece of land with water all around it. It can be big or small. You find islands in oceans, lakes, or rivers. Some islands have trees, sand, and animals. People can live on islands or visit them for a fun day at the beach. A small island with just a few palm trees is one you might see in a picture book.
Israel\n\nIsrael is a small country far away. It sits next to a big blue sea. In Israel, you can see old stone walls and busy streets. Many people live there, and they speak different languages. Some places in Israel are very dry with sand, and some have green hills. People go there to see special old buildings and pray.
Istanbul\n\nIstanbul is a very big city. It sits in two parts of the world: one side is in Europe and the other side is in Asia. A long, blue water road called a strait runs through the middle of it. Big boats and small boats go up and down the water every day. Many, many people live there—more than you can count. Long ago, it had a different name: Constantinople. Today, people visit it to see old, beautiful buildings and to eat yummy food.
It\n\nIt is a small word we use when we talk about a thing, an animal, or a place. We say it instead of the name over and over. If you see a red ball, you can say, "Look at it!" It helps us talk faster and not repeat the same word. When you point to a dog, you can say, "It is fluffy." You use it many times every day without even thinking.
Itaipu Dam\n\nItaipu Dam is a very big wall that holds back a river. It sits on the border between two countries, Brazil and Paraguay. It is so long and tall that you can see it from far away. The dam uses moving water to make power that lights up homes and schools. Many people think it is one of the most amazing things people have ever built.
Italian\n\nItalian is a way of talking and a way of living from a country called Italy. It sounds like music when people speak it. Many people use it to say hello, to sing songs, and to name yummy food like pizza and pasta. You can hear it in movies or when a friend's family talks at home. Italy is shaped like a boot on the map, and that is where Italian comes from.
Italian food\n\nItalian food is the yummy food that people make in Italy. It is not just one dish — different parts of Italy cook different things. You can find pasta and pizza almost everywhere. Pasta is long or short noodles with red or white sauce. Pizza is a flat round bread with cheese and tomato on top. Many people also love a cold sweet treat called ice cream. In Italy, people put olive oil on their food to make it taste good. They also eat olives, which are small round fruits. You might have seen spaghetti or a slice of pizza at your own dinner table.
Italian language\n\nItalian is a way people talk and write. It is used in a country called Italy and some other places. It sounds like music when people speak it. Many food words we know come from it, like pizza and spaghetti. Some music words also come from it, like the name of a big violin called a cello.
Italian literature\n\nItalian literature is all the stories and poems people wrote in the Italian language. It started a long, long time ago, when people first began writing books in Italy. One of the first big writers was a man named Dante. He wrote a very long poem about a trip through different worlds. Later, other people wrote plays and stories about love, heroes, and real life. Some wrote about history, and some wrote about ideas. Today, people still read these old books and also new ones by Italian writers. Six Italian writers have won a very big prize for their stories and poems.
Italy\n\nItaly is a country in Europe. It looks like a boot on a map. It has big mountains in the north and a long coast with blue sea. People in Italy eat yummy food like pasta and pizza. Many people visit Italy to see old buildings and pretty art.
Item\n\nAn item is one single thing. It can be something you hold, like a toy or a spoon. It can also be something you see, like a picture on a wall. When you make a list, each thing on the list is an item. At the store, every box on the shelf is an item you can buy. An item is just one piece of a bigger group.
Its\n\nIt is a small word we use every day. We say it when we talk about a thing, an animal, or a place. For example, we say "The ball is red. It is round." We also use it for the weather, like "It is sunny today." It helps us not say the same name again and again.
Itself\n\nItself is a word we use to talk about the same thing again. It means the thing we just said, not a new thing. When you say "the cat cleaned itself," you mean the cat cleaned the cat. You can use it for one thing, like a toy or a pet. It helps us not say the same name over and over.
Ivory\n\nIvory is a hard, smooth material that comes from big animals like elephants. It is a yellowish-white color, like old milk. People used to make pretty things from it, like piano keys and small statues. But now it is very hard to get because we must keep the animals safe. Today, most of those things are made from plastic instead.
Ivory Coast\n\nIvory Coast is a country in Africa. It sits next to the big ocean and has warm weather all year. Many people live in a big city called Abidjan. In the country, you can see tall trees, green plants, and animals like monkeys. People there grow food like bananas and cocoa beans. Cocoa beans are used to make chocolate.
J-pop\n\nJ-pop is fun music from Japan. It has a happy beat and people sing in Japanese. You can hear it on the radio, on TV shows, and in cartoons from Japan. Many young people and grown-ups like to dance to it. Some songs are fast and some are slow and sweet. It is a big part of life in Japan.
Jack\n\nJack is a name for a boy. He can be a little boy or a grown-up man. You might meet a Jack at school or at the park. He likes to play and have fun, just like you. Sometimes a Jack has a dog or a cat that he loves very much.
Jackal\n\nA jackal is a wild animal that looks like a small dog. It has pointy ears, a bushy tail, and long legs. Jackals live in Africa, Asia, and Europe. They run fast and can run for a long time. They eat small animals like mice and birds. Sometimes they eat food that other animals leave behind. A jackal lives with one mate, and they stay together. They mark their home with a strong smell to keep other jackals away. Young jackals stay with their parents until they are big enough to find their own home.
Jacket\n\nA jacket is a piece of clothing you wear on top of your shirt. It has long sleeves and a zipper or buttons in the front. You put it on when it is cold or windy outside. It keeps your body warm and dry. Some jackets have a hood to cover your head. You might wear a jacket to school, to the park, or when you go for a walk.
Jackfruit\n\nA jackfruit is a very big fruit that grows on a tree. It is green on the outside and has bumpy skin. When it is ready to eat, the color turns a little yellow. Inside, it has soft yellow parts and hard brown seeds. People cook the seeds and eat them. They also cook the green fruit like a vegetable. The ripe yellow fruit is sweet and can be eaten cold. The tree it grows on is tall, with shiny green leaves. A jackfruit can be as heavy as a big dog and as long as your arm.
Jackson\n\nJackson is a name for a boy. It starts with the letter J. Some boys named Jackson have brown hair or blond hair. You might meet a Jackson at school or at the park. He could be your friend who likes to play tag or share his snack.
Jacob\n\nJacob is a person from very old stories. He had a big family with twelve sons and one daughter. He lived a long, long time ago in a place far away. He took care of sheep and goats. One time, he made a warm soup and shared it with his brother. He is remembered as a father of a big group of people.
Jade\n\nJade is a pretty, hard stone. It can be green, white, or other soft colors. People find it deep in the ground. Long ago, people used it to make sharp tools and knives. Today, people wear it as shiny jewelry like necklaces and bracelets. Some think it brings good luck.
Jade Emperor\n\nThe Jade Emperor is a very important god in old Chinese stories. He is like a king who lives high up in the sky. People say he watches over the whole world and makes sure things are fair. Long ago, he was picked to be the boss of all the other gods. On a special day each year, people go to temples and give him food and sweet smells to show they are thankful. In some stories, he is called the Heavenly Grandfather because he is like a kind, wise grandpa in the sky.
Jaguar\n\nA jaguar is a big wild cat. It has yellow or orange fur with dark spots shaped like flowers. It lives in forests and wet places in South America and Central America. It is very strong and can swim well. It hunts alone and eats many kinds of animals. Sometimes a jaguar is all black, but you can still see its spots if you look close.
Jail\n\nA jail is a building with strong walls and locked doors. It has small rooms with bars on the windows. Police bring people there when they break a rule. Inside, people must stay until a judge says they can go. You might see a jail in a movie or a book, but it is not a nice place to visit.
Jainism\n\nJainism is a very old way of thinking and living. It started in India a long, long time ago. People who follow it believe that every living thing has a soul inside. They try to be kind and not hurt any animal or bug. They also try not to want too many things, like toys or treats. By being good and peaceful, they feel happy and free inside.
Jaipur\n\nJaipur is a big city in the country of India. It has many people, about as many as three big bags of rice grains. The city is very old and was built by a king a long time ago. It is known for its pink buildings, so some people call it the Pink City. You can see big forts and palaces there. Many people visit Jaipur to see the pretty colors and busy streets.
Jakarta\n\nJakarta is a very big city on an island called Java. It is the biggest city in the country of Indonesia. Many, many people live there — more than ten million. It sits next to the sea, and sometimes too much water comes in and floods the streets. The ground under the city is slowly going down, so the city is sinking a little bit every year. Long ago, it had different names, like Batavia. Today, it is a busy place with lots of cars, houses, and tall buildings.
Jake\n\nJake is a name for a boy. He is a person, just like you. You might meet a Jake at school or at the park. He could be a friend who likes to play games and share toys. Sometimes a Jake has a big smile and a loud laugh. He is special because every Jake is different.
Jam\n\nJam is a sweet, thick food made from fruit. It is soft and can be spread on bread or toast. You find it in a jar in the kitchen. People eat it for breakfast or as a snack. Strawberry jam is a kind many kids like.
Jamaica\n\nJamaica is a warm island country in the big blue sea. It has green mountains, sandy beaches, and many rivers. People live in towns like Kingston, and they speak English. It is famous for happy music called reggae and a singer named Bob Marley. A very fast runner named Usain Bolt comes from Jamaica too.
January\n\nJanuary is the first month of the year. It has 31 days. It is a cold month in many places, and sometimes snow falls. People start a new calendar in January. They may make a wish for the year, like trying a new thing. You might see frost on windows or wear a warm coat outside.
Japan\n\nJapan is a country made of many islands. It sits in the ocean near China and Korea. The biggest island is called Honshu, and the capital city is Tokyo. Many people live in big cities near the water. Japan has tall mountains, and one is a pretty volcano named Mount Fuji. The ground sometimes shakes there because of earthquakes. People in Japan eat rice, fish, and noodles. A food called sushi is made with rice and raw fish. In spring, pink flowers called cherry blossoms bloom on trees. Japan makes many cars, like Toyota and Honda. It also builds robots that help in factories.
Japanese\n\nJapanese is a way people talk and write. It comes from the country of Japan. It uses three kinds of writing: hiragana, katakana, and kanji. Many people in Japan say words like 'konnichiwa' to say hello. You might see it in cartoons or on food boxes with pretty letters.
Japanese art\n\nJapanese art is making pretty things in Japan. It can be a picture, a statue, or a folded paper. Some art is very old, like pots made from clay. Other art is new, like colorful comics and cartoons. You can see it in a book or on a wall. People use a brush and black ink to paint soft lines. They also fold paper into shapes like a bird or a flower. That is called origami.
Japanese food\n\nJapanese food is the food people eat in Japan. It uses many things from the sea, like fish and seaweed. It also uses rice, noodles, and a white soft block called tofu made from beans. A green spicy paste called wasabi adds a hot taste. Some food is cut into thin raw slices and dipped in a dark salty sauce. You may see it in a restaurant with small bowls and chopsticks.
Japanese language\n\nJapanese is a language people speak in Japan. It uses three kinds of writing: hiragana, katakana, and kanji. Hiragana and katakana are like an alphabet, each shape makes a sound. Kanji are shapes that show a whole word. You can see it in books, signs, and cartoons from Japan. People use it to talk, write, and tell stories. In Japanese, the action word comes at the end of a sentence. Many words come from other languages, like English. For example, 'aisukurimu' means ice cream.
Japanese literature\n\nJapanese literature is stories and poems written in the Japanese language. Long ago, it looked a lot like Chinese writing because the two countries shared ideas. Over time, it grew into its own special style. In one old time called the Heian period, many women wrote beautiful stories. One famous story is about a prince named Genji. Today, people all over the world read Japanese books and poems.
Japanese mythology\n\nJapanese mythology is a set of old stories from Japan. It tells about gods and spirits called kami. Many of these stories come from very old books. One story tells about a sun goddess named Amaterasu. People say the first emperor of Japan came from her family. These stories are part of the Shinto and Buddhist ways of thinking.
Japanese writing system\n\nThe Japanese writing system is how people write words in Japan. It has three parts: hiragana, katakana, and kanji. Hiragana is for everyday Japanese words. It looks like soft, curvy lines. Katakana is for words from other countries. It looks like sharp, straight lines. Kanji are picture-like marks that came from China a long time ago. Each kanji stands for a whole word. You can see all three on signs, in books, and on TV in Japan.
Jar\n\nA jar is a round container with a wide opening at the top. It is usually made of glass or hard plastic. You can find it in the kitchen, where it holds food like jam, pickles, or cookies. It has a lid that you twist to open and close. People use it to keep things fresh and safe. A jar can also be used to store small toys or shiny coins.
Jason\n\nJason is a hero from very old Greek stories. He was the leader of a big boat called the Argo. The people who helped him sail were called the Argonauts. They went on a long trip to find a special golden sheep's wool. Jason fell in love with a girl named Medea. She helped him get the golden wool. Later, they went to live in a city called Corinth. You can see his story in some old movies.
Java\n\nJava is a big island in the country of Indonesia. It has many tall mountains that can spit fire and hot rocks. Many, many people live there, more than on any other island in the world. The ground is very good for growing food like rice. The biggest city in Indonesia is on this island, and it is called Jakarta.
Javelin\n\nA javelin is a long, thin stick that people throw far. It is light and has a pointy end. You see it in big sports games where a person runs fast and lets it fly through the air. The person who throws it the farthest wins. It is a very old sport, played a long, long time ago and still played today.
Jaw\n\nA jaw is a body part that helps an animal grab and chew food. In people, it is made of two bones in the mouth. It moves up and down so teeth can bite and grind. You can feel your own jaw when you open and close your mouth. Some animals, like bugs, have jaws that open side to side. A fish called a moray eel even has two sets of jaws. A jaw is named for what it does, not what it is made of.
Jazz\n\nJazz is a kind of music that people play together. It often uses a saxophone, a trumpet, a piano, a guitar, a big bass, and drums. In jazz, one person can make up new sounds while the others keep the beat. This is called making it up on the spot. The music has a bouncy feel that makes you want to tap your foot. You might hear it at a concert or on the radio. Some songs are fast and happy, and some are slow and soft. Jazz started a long time ago in America and now people all over the world enjoy it.
Jazz dance\n\nJazz dance is a kind of dancing that is fun to watch and do. It has quick steps, big jumps, and turns. You can see it on a stage in a show. People move their whole body to music with a happy beat. Sometimes they wear shiny clothes and hats. A dancer might kick high or spin around fast. Many kids learn jazz dance in a class after school.
Jealousy\n\nJealousy is a feeling you get when you want something that another person has. It can make you feel sad or angry inside. You might feel it when a friend gets a new toy and you do not have one. It is a normal feeling, but it does not feel good. When you feel it, you can talk to a grown-up about it.
Jean\n\nA jean is a kind of pants. It is made from thick, blue cloth. Many people wear it every day to play, go to school, or go outside. It has two legs, a button at the top, and small pockets to put things in. You can see jeans in stores and on people walking down the street.
Jeans\n\nJeans are pants made from strong blue cloth. They have two legs, a zipper or buttons in front, and pockets. You can find them in almost every closet because many people wear them every day. People put them on to play, go to school, or work outside. A common pair is blue, but you can also see black or light ones.
Jeju Island\n\nJeju Island is a big piece of land with water all around it. It has a tall mountain called Hallasan that used to be a fire mountain. The island is made of dark rock from old fire mountains. Many people go there after they get married because it is pretty. You can see the blue sea and green trees all around.
Jellyfish\n\nA jellyfish is a soft animal that lives in the ocean. It has a body like a bell and long, thin arms that hang down. These arms can sting, so you should not touch it. It floats in the water and moves with the waves. Some jellyfish are tiny, and some are very big. You might see one at the beach or in a big tank at the aquarium.
Jerusalem\n\nJerusalem is a very old city. It sits on hills with valleys all around. You can see old stone walls and a big gold dome that shines in the sun. Many people go there to pray because it is a special place for three big religions. People live and work there today, and you can find busy streets next to quiet old buildings.
Jesus\n\nJesus is a very special person from long ago. He lived in a place far away, in a small town. He was a teacher who told people to be kind and to love one another. He helped sick people feel better and did amazing things like sharing food with many hungry friends. People remember him at Christmas, when they give gifts and sing happy songs. Many people around the world still follow his words today.
Jet\n\nA jet is a big flying machine. It has two long wings, a tall tail, and round engines under the wings. You see it high in the sky, leaving a white line behind. It carries people far away, faster than a car or a train. Sometimes you hear a loud roar when it flies over your house.
Jet aircraft\n\nA jet aircraft is a big flying machine with special engines. It has long wings and a long body. You see it at big airports when you go on a trip. It flies very high in the sky, much higher than birds. It goes very fast and can take many people far away. When it takes off, it makes a loud roaring sound.
Jet engine\n\nA jet engine is a machine that pushes things forward very fast. It has a big fan at the front that pulls in air. Inside, it burns special fuel to make the air very hot and big. Then it blows the hot air out the back with a strong push. This push makes an airplane zoom through the sky. You can see jet engines under the wings of big planes at the airport.
Jet stream\n\nA jet stream is a fast wind that blows high up in the sky. It moves like a long, thin river of air. You cannot see it, but it is always there above the clouds. It helps push big storms and cold or warm air around the world. Pilots use it to make planes go faster when they fly east.
Jewel\n\nA jewel is a pretty, shiny stone. It comes from deep under the ground. People find it in a rough, dull shape. Then they cut it and rub it until it sparkles. It can be many colors, like red, blue, green, or clear. People wear jewels on rings, necklaces, and bracelets. A jewel is very hard and does not break easily. Because it is hard to find, it is very special.
Jewellery\n\nJewellery is a pretty thing you wear on your body. It can be a ring on your finger, a chain around your neck, or a small piece in your ear. People make it from shiny metal, bright stones, wood, or even animal teeth long ago. It does not have a job like a coat or shoes—it just looks nice. You might see a grown-up wear a gold ring or a colorful bead bracelet. Some jewellery is very special and kept for big days.
Jigsaw puzzle\n\nA jigsaw puzzle is a game with many small pieces. Each piece has a little bump or a hole on its side. You put the pieces together to make one big picture. It can be a picture of a cat, a house, or a forest. Some puzzles have only a few big pieces for little hands. Other puzzles have many tiny pieces and take a long time to finish. You can find it at home, in a toy store, or at school. When all the pieces fit, you feel happy and proud.
Job\n\nA job is work that a person does to help others and get money. It can be something you do at home, like washing dishes or fixing a broken toy. Many grown-ups have a job outside the house. A teacher has a job helping children learn. A firefighter has a job keeping people safe from fires. When someone does a job, they get money to buy food, clothes, and toys. Some jobs need special skills, like driving a bus or taking care of sick people. Every job is important because it helps the world go round.
Johannes Gutenberg\n\nJohannes Gutenberg was a man who lived a long time ago. He made a machine that could print many copies of a book very fast. Before his machine, people had to write every book by hand, which took a very long time. His printing machine used small metal letters that could be moved around to make words. It helped more people learn to read because books became cheaper. One of the first big books he printed was the Bible.
Johannesburg\n\nJohannesburg is a big city in South Africa. It has very tall buildings, like a big tower and a tall office block. People call it the city of gold because there is gold under the ground. You can see polar bears at the zoo there. It is a busy place where people work and trade.
John\n\nJohn is a name for a boy or a man. It is a short name with four letters. You might know a friend, a dad, or a grandpa named John. Many people all over the world have this name. It is easy to say and easy to write.
John Locke\n\nJohn Locke was a man who lived a long time ago. He thought a lot about how people should be treated. He said every person is born with the right to be free and safe. He also said people learn by seeing and touching things, not just by being told. His ideas helped make rules that are fair for everyone.
Join\n\nJoin means to put things together. When you join hands with a friend, you hold hands. You can join two pieces of paper with glue or tape. At a party, you join a group of kids to play a game. When you join a line, you stand at the back and wait your turn.
Joint\n\nA joint is a place where two or more bones meet inside your body. It helps your body bend and move. Some joints let you swing your arms, and some let you turn your head. Inside a joint, there is a soft, smooth cover on the ends of the bones so they do not rub too hard. There is also a tiny bag of slippery liquid that works like a pillow, making the movement easy and smooth. You can feel a joint when you bend your knee or your elbow.
Joke\n\nA joke is a short story or a question that makes people laugh. It has a funny ending that surprises you. You can hear jokes from friends, read them in books, or see them on TV. Some jokes are silly and make everyone smile. But a joke can also hurt someone's feelings if it is mean. It is best to tell jokes that are kind and fun for all.
Jordan\n\nJordan is a country in a hot, dry part of the world. It has mountains in the north and south, and a big salty lake called the Dead Sea. Many people live in the capital city, Amman. The king helps lead the country. People there speak Arabic and like to eat a special rice and meat dish. They also love to play soccer.
Jordan River\n\nThe Jordan River is a long, winding river in a hot, dry part of the world. It flows from tall mountains down to a big, salty lake called the Dead Sea. The water is very important because people use it for drinking and growing food. Many years ago, people wrote about this river in a special old book. They said it was a place of hope and new beginnings. Today, the river is much smaller than it used to be because people take a lot of water from it.
Journalism\n\nJournalism is a kind of writing that tells people what is happening in the world. It shares news through newspapers, TV, radio, and magazines. People who do this job are called journalists. A journalist finds out facts, writes stories, and takes pictures to show others. You might see it when Mom or Dad reads the news on a phone or watches it on TV.
Journey\n\nA journey is a long trip from one place to another. It can be in a car, on a train, in a plane, or even on your own two feet. You might go on a journey to see a new city, visit family, or explore a forest. Along the way, you see new things and maybe stop for a snack. A journey takes more time than a quick ride to the store. It can feel like a big adventure.
Journey to the West\n\nJourney to the West is a very old story from China. It is a book about a monkey named Sun Wukong. He is strong and can do magic. He goes on a long trip with a monk and two friends. They fight bad guys and have big adventures. Many people in Asia know this story. In English, it is sometimes called Monkey.
Joy\n\nJoy is a happy feeling you get inside. It makes you smile, laugh, and want to jump up and down. You feel it when something good happens, like getting a hug or eating ice cream. It can come from playing with a friend or seeing a rainbow. Joy makes your heart feel light and warm.
Judaism\n\nJudaism is a very old way of believing in one God. It started long, long ago in a place far away. People who follow it are called Jews. They have a special book called the Torah that tells them how to be kind and fair. Jews go to a big building called a synagogue to pray and learn together. They light candles on a special day called Shabbat to rest and be with family. Many Jews also eat flat bread called matzah during a holiday in spring.
Judge\n\nA judge is a person who helps people solve fights in a special room called a court. He wears a long black robe, like a cape. You can find him in a big building with many chairs and a high desk. He listens to what each person says and then makes a fair choice. Sometimes he works with a group of people called a jury who help decide. A judge makes sure everyone follows the rules.
Judiciary\n\nThe judiciary is a group of people who help solve fights about rules. They work in a big building called a court. Inside, a judge sits at a tall desk and wears a black robe. When two people do not agree, they go to the court. The judge listens to both sides and then says what the rule means. This helps everyone follow the same rules. In some places, there is a very important court at the top that makes the final choice.
Judo\n\nJudo is a sport where two people try to throw each other down. It comes from Japan and is now played all over the world. Both boys and girls can do judo. They wear a thick jacket and pants, and they play with no shoes on. One person tries to grab the other and pull or push them onto the floor. When someone falls, the other person gets a point. The person with the most points wins. You can see judo in big games like the Olympics.
Juice\n\nJuice is a drink made from fruit. It comes in many colors, like orange, red, or yellow. You can buy it in a bottle at the store. People make it by squeezing the fruit until the liquid comes out. Orange juice is a kind many kids drink at breakfast. It tastes sweet and is good for your body.
Juicy\n\nJuicy means something has a lot of juice inside. It is wet and tasty when you bite it. You can find juicy things in the kitchen, like oranges, watermelons, and grapes. When you eat a juicy fruit, the sweet water runs down your chin. A juicy apple makes a crunchy sound when you take a bite.
Jujutsu\n\nJujutsu is a very old way of fighting from Japan. It uses the body without big swords or sticks. A person throws, grabs, and holds another person to stop them. Long ago, fighters called samurai used it when they had no sword. Today, people learn it as a sport to get strong and quick.
Julius Caesar\n\nJulius Caesar was a leader from a long, long time ago. He lived in a place called Rome. He was a strong soldier and a good talker. People followed him because he was brave. He helped make Rome bigger and stronger. Some people did not like him, and he got hurt. His name is still known today.
July\n\nJuly is a month in the middle of the year. It comes after June and before August. It is one of the warmest months, so many people go swimming or eat ice cream. In July, the days are long and sunny. Some families go on trips or have a picnic outside. You might see fireworks in the sky on the Fourth of July.
Jump\n\nA jump is when you push your body up off the ground. It happens when you bend your legs and then spring up fast. You can jump on a bed, on a trampoline, or on the floor. It makes you feel light for a tiny moment. Many animals jump too, like a frog or a bunny. Kids love to jump in puddles after rain.
Jumper\n\nA jumper is a piece of clothing you wear on the top half of your body. It is made of soft, warm fabric like wool or cotton. You put it on by pulling it over your head. It keeps you cozy when the weather is cold. Some jumpers have long sleeves, and some have no sleeves. You might wear a jumper to school or when you play outside on a chilly day.
Jumping\n\nJumping is when you push your body up off the ground and then come back down. It makes you fly in the air for a little bit. You can jump up high or jump far ahead. Many animals jump too. A frog jumps to get away from danger. A kangaroo jumps to move from place to place. People jump in games and sports, like hopping over a rope or jumping into a big sand pit. It is a fun way to move your body.
June\n\nJune is a month in the middle of the year. It comes after May and before July. In many places, the weather is warm and sunny. Flowers are big and bright, and trees have green leaves. School often ends in June, so children can play outside all day. Some families go to the beach or have a picnic. It is a happy time when summer begins.
Jungle\n\nA jungle is a hot, wet place with many, many trees and plants. It is so thick that it is hard to walk inside. It has big rivers and small streams running through it. Many animals live in a jungle, like bright birds, loud monkeys, and long snakes. Some snakes are very big and can be dangerous. The biggest jungle on Earth is the Amazon. It is in a country called Brazil. People can find food in a jungle, but they must be careful because the ground is full of roots and leaves.
Juniper\n\nJuniper is a plant that stays green all year. It can be a small bush or a tall tree. It has thin, pointy leaves that look like needles. It grows in many places where it is not too hot. Some junipers make little round seed balls that look like berries. People use these berries to add a nice smell and taste to food. But some berries are not safe to eat, so you should never pick them without a grown-up.
Junk\n\nJunk is stuff that people do not want anymore. It can be old toys, broken chairs, or empty boxes. You might see it in a big pile on the side of the road or in a special bin outside. People throw junk away because it is broken or they do not need it. Sometimes, people take old junk and make it into something new and fun.
Jupiter\n\nJupiter is a very big ball of gas in the sky. It is the biggest planet that goes around our Sun. It looks like a round ball with stripes of white, brown, and orange. You can see a big red spot on it, which is a giant storm that has been there for a very long time. Jupiter is far away from Earth, so you need a telescope to see it clearly. It has many moons that go around it, like little friends. Jupiter is made mostly of gas, so you cannot stand on it like you stand on the ground.
Jupiter (mythology)\n\nJupiter is the king of the gods in old Roman stories. He is the god of the sky and thunder. He has two brothers named Pluto and Neptune. Jupiter lives high up in the sky and rules over the clouds and storms. People long ago told stories about him and drew pictures of him with a big beard and a lightning bolt in his hand.
Jurassic\n\nThe Jurassic is a very old time in Earth's story. It was a time when the world was hot and wet. Big animals called dinosaurs walked on the land. Some dinosaurs had long necks and ate leaves from tall trees. Others had sharp teeth and ate meat. The sea had big swimming animals too. You can see dinosaur bones in a museum. That is how we know about the Jurassic.
Jury\n\nA jury is a group of people who help a judge in a court. They listen to a story about someone who may have broken a rule. Then they talk together and decide if the person did it or not. All of them must agree on the answer. If they cannot agree, the judge may ask a new group to try. A person in a jury is called a juror. A juror must be fair and listen to both sides. Some people, like doctors, can say no to being on a jury. In some places, a jury has twelve people.
Just\n\nJust means something is fair or right. It is when people are treated in a good way. For example, when you share your toys with a friend, that is just. It is the opposite of being mean or unfair.
Justice\n\nJustice is when things are fair for everyone. It means people get what they need and no one is left out. You see it when a grown-up makes sure all kids get the same number of cookies. It also happens when a teacher listens to both sides of a fight before deciding who is right. At home, it is fair when you and your brother both get a turn with a toy.
K2\n\nK2 is a very tall mountain. It is the second-highest mountain in the whole world. It has snow and ice on top all year. It is on the line between two big lands, Pakistan and China. Many people try to climb it, but it is very hard and can be scary. The wind is strong and the air is thin up high. Some people call it the Savage Mountain because it is so wild. Only a few brave climbers make it to the very top.
Kaaba\n\nThe Kaaba is a very special building for people who follow Islam. It is a big box made of dark stone, and it sits in a city called Mecca. It has a black cloth cover with gold writing on it. The cover is changed for a new one every year. Muslims all over the world turn toward the Kaaba when they pray. Many people visit it on a big trip called Hajj.
Kabaddi\n\nKabaddi is a fun game that two teams play. It comes from a country called India. The teams take turns sending one player to the other side. That player must hold their breath and say "Kabaddi, Kabaddi" over and over. They try to touch someone and run back fast. If they make it back, their team gets a point. The other team tries to stop them. The team with the most points wins.
Kabuki\n\nKabuki is a kind of play from Japan. It started a long, long time ago. In it, actors wear bright, painted faces and move in big, slow ways. The stage can turn around, and there is a long path where actors walk through the crowd. Men play all the parts, even the girls. It tells stories about brave fighters, old times, and town life. People all over the world now come to watch it.
Kalahari Desert\n\nThe Kalahari Desert is a big, dry place with lots of sand. It is in the south part of Africa. It covers parts of three countries: Botswana, Namibia, and South Africa. It is not a true desert because some rain falls there. After rain, green grass grows and animals come to eat. You can find lions, giraffes, meerkats, and many birds there. Some people called the Bushmen used to live there long ago. They moved from place to place to find food and water.
Kale\n\nKale is a leafy green vegetable. It has big, curly leaves that can be dark green or a little purple. You find it in the garden or at the grocery store. People cook it in soups or bake it into crunchy chips. It is full of good things that help you grow strong.
Kali\n\nKali is a goddess from Hindu stories. She is often shown with dark blue or black skin and many arms. In pictures, she may wear a necklace of heads and hold a sword. People pray to her for strength and protection. She is very powerful and can stop bad things.
Kamchatka Peninsula\n\nKamchatka Peninsula is a big piece of land in Russia. It sticks out into the ocean. It has many tall mountains that can shoot out hot, red fire and smoke. These are called volcanoes. Some of them are covered in snow at the top. The land is far away, where it is cold and wild. Bears, big fish, and birds live there. People visit to see the volcanoes and the hot water that bubbles up from the ground.
Kangaroo\n\nA kangaroo is a big animal that hops. It has strong back legs, a long thick tail, and a pouch on its belly. Kangaroos live in Australia and nearby islands. They eat grass and plants. A baby kangaroo is called a joey. It stays safe inside its mother's pouch. Kangaroos live in big groups. They can jump very far and fast.
Karachi\n\nKarachi is a very big city in the country of Pakistan. It is next to the sea and has a big port where ships come and go. Many people live there, more than in any other city in Pakistan. It has tall buildings, busy streets, and a big airport for planes. You can find long sandy beaches where families play. It also has a big stadium where people watch cricket games. Long ago, a very important man who helped start Pakistan was born there.
Karakoram\n\nKarakoram is a big group of tall mountains in Asia. It has many high tops covered with snow and ice. You can find it in countries like China, India, and Pakistan. It is the second highest mountain group in the world. Some of its peaks are so high that people need special gear to climb them. The mountains have huge rivers of ice called glaciers that move very slowly. These glaciers are some of the biggest outside the cold North and South Poles. Long ago, traders used paths through these mountains to travel between lands.
Karaoke\n\nKaraoke is a fun way to sing songs with music that has no voice. It started in Japan a long time ago. You stand in front of a screen that shows the words, and you sing along. The music plays, but the singer's voice is missing, so you get to be the star. Many people do karaoke at parties or in special rooms with friends. It makes everyone laugh and clap.
Karate\n\nKarate is a way of fighting without any toys. It comes from a place called Japan. People use their hands, feet, elbows, and knees to hit and block. They wear a white jacket and white pants called a Gi. A colored belt shows how long they have trained. Many kids and grown-ups learn it to get strong and to be safe.
Karl Marx\n\nKarl Marx was a man who lived a long time ago. He thought a lot about how people work and share money. He wrote big books with his ideas. Some people liked his ideas and tried to change how countries work. He had a big beard and looked very serious in pictures.
Karma\n\nKarma is like a big rule about what you do. It says that when you do something nice, nice things come back to you. When you do something mean, mean things come back to you. It is like a boomerang that always comes back. People in some lands think about karma a lot. They try to be kind so good things happen. It helps them learn to be better people.
Katana\n\nA katana is a long, curved sword from Japan. It has a shiny, sharp blade with one cutting side and a pointy tip. Long ago, only special fighters called samurai carried it. They wore it on their left side, tucked into a belt, with the blade facing up. A katana is used for cutting and sometimes for stabbing. Today, people practice with it in sports like kendo, using safe bamboo swords.
Kathmandu\n\nKathmandu is a big city in a country called Nepal. It is the most important city there. It has many old buildings, temples, and palaces. The weather changes with the seasons. In winter it is cool and dry. In summer it gets warm and rain falls a lot. Many people live there. Some people go there to sit quietly and think. It is a busy place full of color and life.
Kayak\n\nA kayak is a small, narrow boat. It has a covered top with a hole where one person sits. You use a long stick with flat ends, called a paddle, to push the water and move it. People ride it on lakes, rivers, and the ocean. It is quiet and can go into small spaces. Some people race in kayaks, and others use them to see fish and birds up close.
Kazakhstan\n\nKazakhstan is a big country far away. It is a place with no ocean next to it. It has wide, flat lands and big, empty spaces. Long ago, people there moved around with horses and sheep. Today, people live in cities and towns. One big city is called Astana. It is very cold in winter and warm in summer. Some people there speak Kazakh, and some speak Russian. They eat bread and meat, and they drink tea. A long time ago, rockets flew into space from a place in Kazakhstan.
Kaziranga National Park\n\nKaziranga National Park is a big, safe home for wild animals in India. It has tall grass, trees, rivers, and small lakes. Many animals live there, like the one-horned rhino, tigers, elephants, and big birds. The park is very special because it keeps rare animals safe. When it rains a lot, the rivers grow and cover parts of the park with water. The animals move to higher ground to stay dry. People from all over the world come to see the animals.
Keep\n\nKeep is a word that means to hold on to something and not let it go. When you keep a toy, you put it in your room and do not throw it away. You can keep a secret, which means you do not tell anyone. A mom might keep cookies in a jar so they stay fresh. When you keep trying, you do not stop even if it is hard.
Keeper\n\nA keeper is a person who takes care of something. He watches over it and keeps it safe. You can find a keeper at a zoo, where he feeds the animals and cleans their homes. He also works at a park, making sure the grass is cut and the paths are clean. A keeper at a museum protects old things so people can see them. He has a big job because he helps things stay nice for everyone.
Kelp\n\nKelp is a kind of plant that lives in the sea. It is brown and looks like a long, wavy ribbon. It grows in big groups under the water, like a forest. It has little air bags that help it float up toward the light. Many fish and sea animals live and hide in it. People can eat it as a sea vegetable. You can see it in big fish tanks at some aquariums.
Kennedy Space Center\n\nThe Kennedy Space Center is a big place in Florida where rockets go up into the sky. It has tall buildings to put rockets together and long roads for them to land. People work there to send astronauts and machines to space. You can visit it and see real rockets and learn about the Moon and stars.
Kenya\n\nKenya is a country in Africa. It has hot, dry plains called savannas where many wild animals live. You can find lions, elephants, and giraffes there. People visit Kenya to see these animals in big parks. It also has a tall mountain and a big lake. Many people in Kenya speak English and Swahili.
Kerosene\n\nKerosene is a clear liquid that burns easily. It looks like water but smells strong. People use it to make light in lamps when they go camping. It also gives heat in some stoves and heaters. Big planes use a special kind of kerosene to fly in the sky. You might see a kerosene lamp at a campfire or in a story about old times.
Ketchup\n\nKetchup is a thick, red sauce made from tomatoes. It tastes a little sweet and a little sour. People squeeze it from a bottle or open a small packet. Many kids like to dip french fries, hot dogs, or burgers into it. It can also be called tomato sauce. You often see it on the table at a picnic or in a fast-food restaurant.
Key\n\nA key is a small metal tool. It has a long flat part and a round or square top. You put it into a lock to open a door. People use keys to get into their house or car. A key can be shiny silver or gold. You might see one hanging on a hook by the front door.
Keyboard\n\nA keyboard is a flat board with many small buttons called keys. It has letters, numbers, and other signs on the keys. You find it on a computer, a tablet, or a phone. When you press a key, it makes a letter show up on the screen. It helps you write words, play games, and tell the computer what to do. Some keyboards have a wire, and some work without one.
Keyboard (computer)\n\nA keyboard is a flat board with many small buttons called keys. It has letters, numbers, and other signs on the keys. You find it in front of a computer or laptop. When you press a key, it sends a signal to the computer, and the letter shows up on the screen. You use it to type words, play games, or tell the computer what to do. Some keyboards have a wire, and some work without one. The keys are usually in a pattern called QWERTY, named after the first six letters on the top row.
Keyboard instrument\n\nA keyboard instrument is a music tool that you play by pressing keys. It has a row of long keys, often white, and shorter keys, often black, that sit higher up. You can find it in many places like a school music room, a church, or on a stage. When you press a key, it makes a sound. Some keyboard instruments use strings inside, and some use electricity to make the sound. A piano is one kind of keyboard instrument that many people know.
Kharkiv\n\nKharkiv is a big city in the country of Ukraine. It has many houses, streets, and tall buildings. It sits in the east part of the country. Many people live there and work in shops, schools, and factories. Long ago, it was a small town, but it grew bigger over many years. Today, it is one of the biggest cities in Ukraine. Some children ride a train under the ground to go to school.
Khartoum\n\nKhartoum is a big city in a country called Sudan. It sits where two rivers, the Blue Nile and the White Nile, meet and become one big river. The weather there is very hot and dry for most of the year. Many people live in Khartoum, and some came from far away to be safe. It is one of the hottest big cities in the world.
Kick\n\nA kick is when you push something hard with your foot. It can be a fast, strong push. You see a kick when someone plays soccer and hits the ball with their foot. You can also kick a ball in the park or in your yard. Sometimes people kick to move things out of the way. A kick can be big and strong or small and soft.
Kickboxing\n\nKickboxing is a sport where people use their hands and feet to hit. It looks a little like boxing, but you can also kick. People do it to stay strong and healthy, or to fight in a ring. In a match, two people wear big soft gloves and try to hit each other above the belt. They also wear a mouth guard to keep their teeth safe. You might see it on TV or at a gym.
Kid\n\nA kid is a young person, like you. It is smaller than a grown-up and is still learning many things. You can find kids at home, at school, or at the playground. A kid likes to play, run, and ask lots of questions. You are a kid, and so are your friends.
Kidney\n\nA kidney is a part inside your body that helps clean your blood. It is shaped like a bean, and you have two of them. They sit in your belly, one on each side. They take out extra water and waste and turn it into pee. When you drink a lot, they make more pee. When you drink a little, they make less pee. They also send out helpers that keep your body steady. If they get very sick, a doctor can help with a machine or give a new kidney from another person.
Killer whale\n\nA killer whale is a big black-and-white animal that lives in the ocean. It has a round head, a long body, and a tall fin on its back. It is not a fish—it breathes air like you. It lives in all the oceans, from cold places to warm places. It swims very fast and jumps out of the water. It hunts with its family group called a pod. Together they catch fish, seals, and even sharks. Sometimes people see it at big water parks doing jumps and splashes.
Kilogram\n\nA kilogram is a way to tell how heavy something is. It is a number that helps us know how much stuff is inside a thing. You can find it on a food box or when you step on a scale. People use it to weigh fruit, like a big bag of apples. One kilogram is about as heavy as a full bottle of water.
Kin\n\nKin means the people in your family. It is your mom, dad, brother, sister, grandma, and grandpa. They are the ones who love you and take care of you. You live with some of your kin in your house. Other kin may live in a different house, but you see them on special days like a birthday or a holiday. They are all connected to you, like branches on a big family tree.
Kind\n\nKind means you are nice to others. It is when you share your toy or say a soft word. You can be kind at home, at school, or at the park. When you help a friend who fell down, that is kind. A smile or a hug can show you are kind too.
Kindness\n\nKindness is when you do something nice for someone. It can be a big help or a small smile. You can show kindness by sharing a toy, giving a hug, or saying a kind word. It makes the other person feel happy and warm inside. It also makes you feel good. You can find kindness at home, at school, or on the playground. When you see a friend fall down and you help them up, that is kindness.
Kinetic energy\n\nKinetic energy is the energy a thing has when it moves. It is like a secret power inside a rolling ball or a running dog. When a thing moves fast, it has more of this energy. When it stops, the energy goes away. You can see it when you push a toy car across the floor. The car moves because you gave it kinetic energy.
King\n\nA king is a man who is the leader of a whole country. He wears a shiny crown on his head and sits on a big chair called a throne. He lives in a large house called a castle or a palace. Long ago, a king told people what to do and made the rules. Today, some countries still have a king, but he often shares the job with other leaders. You might see a king in a storybook or a movie.
Kingdom\n\nA kingdom is a big piece of land with a king or a queen. It has towns, farms, and castles where people live. The king or queen makes the rules for everyone in the kingdom. Long ago, many kingdoms had knights in shiny armor and big stone walls. Today, some places still have kings and queens, like in a fairy tale.
Kingdom of England\n\nThe Kingdom of England was a country a long time ago. It was on a big island called Great Britain. It had a king or queen who ruled over the land. Long before, many small groups of people lived there. Later, they all came together under one ruler. After many years, it joined with another country called Scotland to make a bigger kingdom. Today, the land is still there, but the old kingdom is gone.
Kingston, Jamaica\n\nKingston is a big city on an island called Jamaica. It sits next to the sea, with a long strip of sand that keeps the water calm. Many people live there, and they speak English. It is the most important city in Jamaica, where the leaders work. You can see boats and ships in the water near the city.
Kinship\n\nKinship is the way people are connected in a family. It tells us who is our mom, dad, brother, sister, grandma, or grandpa. Some family ties come from being born into the same family. Other ties come when people get married or when a child is adopted. Every person in the world has some kind of kinship. It helps us know who we belong to and who takes care of us.
Kiribati\n\nKiribati is a small country made of many tiny islands. It sits in the big blue ocean near the middle of the world. The islands are flat and low, with sandy beaches and palm trees. People live in simple houses and fish in the sea. They also grow food like coconuts and sweet potatoes. The weather is warm and sunny all year. Many people go to church on Sundays. The water around Kiribati is rising, so the land is getting smaller.
Kiss\n\nA kiss is when you touch someone with your lips. It can be a quick peck on the cheek or a longer touch on the mouth. People kiss to show they care, like when a mom kisses a child goodnight. Friends may kiss on the cheek to say hello or goodbye. A kiss can also be part of a special day, like when a bride and groom kiss at a wedding. It makes people feel warm and happy inside.
Kit\n\nA kit is a box or bag that holds many things you need to do one job. It has small parts inside, like tools or toys. You can find a kit at home, at school, or in a store. People use a kit to build, fix, or make something. For example, a doctor has a kit with bandages and a light to check your ears. A craft kit has paper, glue, and stickers to make art.
Kitchen\n\nA kitchen is a room in a house where people make food. It has a stove to cook hot meals and a sink with water to wash hands and dishes. You can find a kitchen in almost every home, and also in schools and big buildings where people eat. In a kitchen, a grown-up uses pots and pans to boil, fry, or bake yummy things. Sometimes the whole family sits at a table in the kitchen to eat together. A kitchen often has a cold box called a fridge to keep milk and fruit fresh.
Kite\n\nA kite is a toy that flies in the sky. It has a light frame and a thin cover that catches the wind. You hold a long string to keep it from flying away. On a windy day, you can run and watch it go up high. Some kites look like birds or dragons. Many children fly kites at the park or the beach.
Kitten\n\nA kitten is a baby cat. It is very small and has soft, fluffy fur. You can find it in a warm box or basket with its mommy cat. It drinks milk and sleeps a lot when it is tiny. A kitten likes to play with balls of yarn and chase little toys. It makes a tiny meow sound. When it grows up, it becomes a big cat.
Kiwi\n\nA kiwi is a bird that cannot fly. It has a long, thin beak and brown feathers that look like soft fur. It lives in New Zealand, a country far away. It sleeps during the day and comes out at night to look for worms and bugs to eat. It makes a home in a hole in the ground, like a rabbit. A kiwi is a special bird that many people love.
Kiwifruit\n\nA kiwifruit is a small fruit that grows on a vine. It has a fuzzy brown skin that you can peel off. Inside, it is bright green with tiny black seeds that you can eat. It tastes sweet and a little bit sour. You can find it in the store next to other fruits. People eat it as a snack or put it in fruit salad. It is full of good things that help your body stay strong.
Knee\n\nA knee is the part in the middle of your leg. It lets you bend your leg so you can walk, run, and jump. It looks like a bump when your leg is straight. You can feel it with your hand right under your skin. When you fall down, your knee can get a scrape or a bruise.
Knife\n\nA knife is a tool with a sharp part that cuts things. It has a handle you hold and a flat metal part that is very sharp. You can find it in the kitchen, where grown-ups use it to cut food like bread, fruit, and meat. Some people carry a small one in their pocket when they go camping. It helps cut rope or make a stick pointy. You should never touch it without a grown-up because it can hurt you.
Knight\n\nA knight is a person who was a brave fighter long ago. He wore a shiny metal suit and a helmet to stay safe. He rode a big horse and carried a sword and a shield. Knights lived in castles and helped keep people safe. Today, a king or queen can still make someone a knight as a special thank-you. That person gets a tap on the shoulder with a sword and is called 'Sir.'
Knitting\n\nKnitting is a way to make soft cloth from long strings called yarn. It uses two long, pointy sticks called needles. You loop the yarn around the needles over and over. This makes rows of little loops that hold together. People knit to make warm things like hats, scarves, and blankets. A sweater is often made by knitting. Some people knit just for fun while they sit and watch TV.
Knob\n\nA knob is a small round thing you turn with your hand. It is often on a door, a drawer, or a stove. When you turn it, something opens, closes, or changes. For example, a door knob lets you open a door. A stove knob makes the fire bigger or smaller. It is easy to hold because it is round and fits in your hand.
Knock\n\nA knock is a sound you make when you hit a door with your hand. It goes tap-tap-tap. People do it to let someone inside know they are waiting. You can also knock on a table or a wall to get a friend's attention. It is a quick, short noise that says, "Hello, I am here!"
Knot\n\nA knot is a way to tie something so it stays in a loop. It is made by twisting and pulling a string, rope, or even hair. You can find knots on your shoes when you tie the laces. It holds things together so they do not come apart. A knot on a balloon keeps the air inside. People also tie pretty knots on gifts with ribbons. Sailors use strong knots on boats to keep ropes in place.
Know\n\nTo know something means you have it in your head. When you know a color, you can point to it. When you know a song, you can sing it. You know your own name and the names of your family. You learn new things every day, and then you know them too.
Knowledge\n\nKnowledge is all the things you know and can do. It lives inside your head, like a big box of ideas. You get it when you look, listen, try, or ask someone. Some knowledge is about facts, like the sky is blue. Some is about doing things, like tying your shoes. You use it every day when you play, talk, or eat. A teacher helps you grow your knowledge at school.
Knuckle\n\nA knuckle is the bumpy part where your finger bends. It helps your finger move and grab things. You can see it when you make a fist. It looks like a little hill on the back of your hand. When you knock on a door, you use your knuckles.
Koala\n\nA koala is a small, furry animal that lives in Australia. It has soft gray fur, a big dark nose, and sharp claws for climbing. It lives high up in trees and eats leaves from a special tree called eucalyptus. It sleeps for many hours every day because its food gives it very little energy. A baby koala is tiny and stays in its mother's pouch until it grows bigger. It is not a bear, even though some people call it a koala bear.
Kohlrabi\n\nKohlrabi is a round vegetable that grows above the ground. It has a thick, light green or purple skin. Inside, it is white and crunchy. You can eat it raw like an apple, or you can cook it in soup. It tastes a little like a cabbage stem. People in some countries like to put it in salads or stir it in a pan. The leaves on top are also good to eat.
Koi\n\nA koi is a big, pretty fish that people keep in outdoor ponds. It has shiny scales and comes in many colors like white, black, red, yellow, and blue. People like to watch it swim in garden ponds because it looks bright and calm. It is a kind of carp, which is a fish that lives in fresh water. Some places do not let people keep it because it can hurt other fish.
Kolkata\n\nKolkata is a big city in India. It sits next to a wide river. Many people live there, and the streets are busy with cars, buses, and yellow taxis. Long ago, kings and British rulers made it their home, so you can see old, pretty buildings. Today, people work in shops and offices. Children play in parks and fly kites from rooftops.
Komodo dragon\n\nA Komodo dragon is the biggest lizard in the world. It has a long body, a tail as long as its body, and about 60 sharp teeth. Its skin can be blue, orange, green, gray, or brown. It lives on a few hot, dry islands in Indonesia. It eats meat, like dead animals, goats, and deer. It can run fast and climb trees when it is young. It digs big holes to sleep in at night.
Korea\n\nKorea is a long piece of land that sticks out into the sea. It is in the east part of Asia. Today, it is split into two countries: North Korea and South Korea. Many people live in big cities there, like Seoul. People in Korea speak the Korean language. They eat rice, soup, and a spicy food called kimchi. Long ago, kings and queens lived in big houses with curved roofs. Now, South Korea makes cars, phones, and fun TV shows that kids around the world watch.
Korean language\n\nKorean is a language that people speak in two countries, South Korea and North Korea. It sounds different from English, with its own words and way of talking. Many people, more than 78 million, use it every day. It has its own writing called Hangul, which has shapes that stand for sounds. Long ago, people also used Chinese characters, but now most writing is in Hangul. If you see a book or a sign with round and straight lines that look like little boxes, it might be Korean.
Kosher\n\nKosher is a set of rules about food for Jewish people. It tells them which foods they can eat and which foods they cannot eat. One big rule is that meat and milk foods must stay apart. They cannot be on the same plate or in the same meal. Fish, fruit, and vegetables can go with either meat or milk. People who follow these rules have two sets of dishes and pots—one for meat and one for milk. They also wait some hours between eating meat and milk. Some animals are never okay to eat. The animals that are okay must be killed in a very careful way by a special helper.
Kosovo\n\nKosovo is a small country in Europe. It has mountains in the west and flat fields in the middle. Many people there speak Albanian. A long time ago, it was part of a bigger country, but now it wants to be on its own. Some other countries say it is a real country, but not all of them agree.
Krakatoa\n\nKrakatoa is a big mountain that can get very hot and explode. It sits in the water between two big pieces of land. A long time ago, it blew up with a boom so loud that people far, far away could hear it. The boom made a giant wave in the water that hurt many people. After it blew up, most of the mountain fell into the sea. Later, a new, smaller mountain grew in the same spot. Today, it still lets out smoke and fire sometimes.
Kremlin\n\nA kremlin is a big, strong fort in an old Russian city. It has tall walls and towers made of red brick. In Moscow, the biggest kremlin sits in the middle of the city. Long ago, people built it to keep safe from enemies. Today, the leader of Russia works inside it. You can see its pointy towers and a big clock on one tower in pictures.
Krill\n\nKrill is a tiny animal that lives in the ocean. It looks like a small shrimp and is about as long as your finger. It swims in big groups with many, many friends. Many big sea animals eat it, like whales, seals, and penguins. Some krill can make a little light in the dark water.
Krishna\n\nKrishna is a god that many people in India love. He is often shown with blue skin and a peacock feather in his hair. People tell stories about him in a big old book. He was a brave fighter and a kind teacher. In one story, he stopped a bad king from hurting his mom and dad. Many children hear about Krishna when their parents read them stories at night.
Krishna River\n\nThe Krishna River is a very long river in India. It flows through many places and gives water to farms. People use its water to grow food like rice and sugarcane. Smaller rivers join it along the way, like friends coming together. It is one of the biggest rivers in the south part of India.
Kuala Lumpur\n\nKuala Lumpur is a big city in a warm country called Malaysia. It has very tall buildings that touch the sky. Two of them stand side by side and look like shiny silver towers. It is hot there all year, and rain falls on many days. People in the city go to work, ride trains, and eat yummy food at busy street markets.
Kuiper belt\n\nThe Kuiper belt is a big ring of icy rocks far out in space. It is past the planet Neptune, very far from the Sun. It has many small, cold worlds that are round like balls. Some are even bigger than the rocks between Mars and Jupiter. Long ago, people found Pluto and its friend Charon there. Now we know there are many more of these icy rocks. They are so far away that the Sun looks like a tiny dot.
Kumquat\n\nA kumquat is a tiny fruit that looks like a small orange. It is yellow or orange and has a thin, sweet skin you can eat. It grows on a small tree with shiny green leaves and white flowers. The tree came from warm places far away, like China. People eat it whole, skin and all, as a snack or in sweet treats. You might see it in a store near other fruits.
Kurdish people\n\nKurdish people are a big group of people who live in a part of the world called Kurdistan. They have their own language, and many of them speak Kurdish. A long time ago, they moved from place to place with their animals, but now most of them live in cities and towns. They are mostly Muslim, but some follow other religions. Many Kurdish people live in Turkey, Iran, Iraq, and Syria.
Kuril Islands\n\nThe Kuril Islands are a long line of islands in the sea. They sit between Russia and Japan. Some of the islands belong to Russia, and some are wanted by Japan too. The islands have hills, trees, and water all around. People fish in the sea near them. It is a place where two big lands almost touch.
Kuwait\n\nKuwait is a small country in a hot, sandy part of the world. It has a flat, dry land with very little rain. Many people live in tall buildings in the city. Kuwait has a lot of oil under the ground. It sells this oil to other countries to make money. Long ago, another country came to fight, but now Kuwait is safe. People speak Arabic there, and many also speak English. Children go to school to learn and play.
Kuwait City\n\nKuwait City is a big city where many people live. It sits next to a big blue sea called the Persian Gulf. The weather is very hot in summer, and it does not rain much. Sometimes the wind blows sand and dust around. Important buildings for the whole country are there, like the place where leaders meet to make rules. A long time ago, the city got hurt in a war, but people fixed it up again.
Kyiv\n\nKyiv is a big city in the country of Ukraine. It has many tall buildings, wide streets, and a long river called the Dnipro running through it. Over three million people live there. It is the main city of Ukraine, where the leaders work. People go there to see old churches with gold tops and to watch big sports games. Once, a big singing show with people from many countries was held there.
Kyoto\n\nKyoto is a big city in Japan. It has many old wooden buildings with curved roofs. You find it on an island in Asia, with mountains around it. People go there to look at pink cherry flowers in spring and red leaves in fall. It is also a place where people eat food made from fresh green plants.
Kyrgyzstan\n\nKyrgyzstan is a country far away in the middle of Asia. It has no ocean next to it, only land all around. Most of the country is covered by tall, rocky mountains. The capital city is called Bishkek. People there speak Kyrgyz and Russian. Many people grow food like wheat and potatoes, and they also dig for gold and coal. A big, blue lake named Issyk-Kul sits high in the mountains. It is a very cold lake, but it never freezes.
La Paz\n\nLa Paz is a big city in the country of Bolivia. It sits very high up in the mountains, higher than many other cities in the world. The streets go up and down steep hills. Many people live there, and it is a place where leaders make rules for the country. You can see colorful houses and busy markets with fruits and bright cloth. The air is thin because it is so high, so it can feel hard to run and play.
Lab\n\nA lab is a special room where people do tests and learn new things. It has tables, bright lights, and tools like bottles and tubes. You can find a lab in a school, a hospital, or a big building. People in a lab mix things, look close with a big glass, and write down what they see. A doctor might use a lab to check if you are sick.
Label\n\nA label is a small piece of paper or plastic that tells you about a thing. It is often stuck on a box, a jar, or a shirt. It can have words, a picture, or a number. You see it on food to know what is inside. It also tells you how to wash a shirt or who made a toy. A label helps you find your name on your school bag.
Laboratory\n\nA laboratory is a special room where people do science. It has tables, bright lights, and tools like glass cups and tubes. You can find it in schools, hospitals, and big buildings. People use it to mix things, look at tiny bugs, and learn new things. A doctor might use it to check if you are sick.
Labrador Sea\n\nThe Labrador Sea is a big body of water. It sits between two large pieces of land called Labrador and Greenland. In winter, much of it is covered with ice. Many animals live in and around it, like seals, whales, and fish. People catch shrimp and fish there. On the land nearby, you can find bears, foxes, and birds.
Lace\n\nLace is a thin, soft cloth with pretty holes in it. It looks like a web of tiny flowers or shapes with open spaces. You can find it on fancy dresses, curtains, and sometimes on pillows. People use it to make clothes look extra special and pretty. A bride might wear a white dress with lace on her wedding day.
Lacrosse\n\nLacrosse is a game where two teams try to score goals. It uses a long stick with a small net on the end to catch and throw a ball. Players run on a big field and try to put the ball into the other team's goal. Each team has ten players who wear helmets and pads to stay safe. You can see lacrosse at parks or on TV when big kids and grown-ups play.
Ladder\n\nA ladder is a tool that helps people climb up or down. It has two long side pieces and many short steps in the middle. You put your feet on the steps and your hands on the sides. Some ladders lean against a wall, and some can stand by themselves like a big letter A. You might see a small ladder on a bunk bed or a big one on a fire truck. People use it to reach high places safely.
Ladle\n\nA ladle is a big spoon with a long handle. It has a deep, round bowl at the end. You find it in the kitchen, near the stove or in a drawer. People use it to scoop soup, stew, or punch from a big pot into a bowl or cup. It keeps your hands safe from the hot food.
Lady\n\nA lady is a grown-up girl. She is older than a child and can be a mom, a teacher, or a friend. You can see a lady at home, at the store, or at the park. She might wear a dress, have long hair, or carry a bag. A lady can read you a story, give you a hug, or help you tie your shoes.
Lady beetle\n\nA lady beetle is a tiny, round bug. It has a hard, shiny back that is often red with black spots. You can find it on leaves in gardens and parks. It eats small bugs called aphids that hurt plants. This helps farmers and flowers grow better. Some lady beetles are orange or yellow, and a few have no spots at all.
Ladybug\n\nA ladybug is a tiny, round bug. It has a red back with small black spots. You can find it in a garden on a leaf. It eats tiny bugs that hurt plants. A ladybug can fly with its little wings.
Lagoon\n\nA lagoon is a pool of salty water next to the big sea. It is like a quiet bath that the sea leaves behind. Sand, small rocks, or a wall of coral keeps it safe from the big waves. You can find it near a beach or around a warm island. The water in it is still and shallow, so little fish and crabs like to live there. Sometimes people swim or float in it because the water is calm and not too deep.
Lagos\n\nLagos is a big city in a country called Nigeria. It has many tall buildings, busy streets, and lots of people. You can find it near the water, where big boats come and go. Many people live there and work in shops, offices, and markets. It is a place where cars, buses, and motorbikes move all day long.
Lahore\n\nLahore is a big city in a country called Pakistan. It has many parks and gardens, so people call it the City of Gardens. It is very old, with big old buildings like a huge fort and a pretty mosque. Many people live there, and they like to eat tasty food on a busy street. It is a place where people learn in big schools and make art and movies.
Lake\n\nA lake is a big pool of water with land all around it. It is not the ocean, so the water does not taste salty. It does not move fast like a river, but small rivers can bring water in and out. Many lakes have fresh water that people can drink. Some lakes are made by people to hold water for homes and farms. You can find lakes in parks where families go to swim, fish, or watch ducks.
Lake Albert (Africa)\n\nLake Albert is a very big body of water in Africa. It is long and wide, and the water is deep. You can find it in the middle of Africa, between two countries called Uganda and Congo. Many rivers bring water into it, and one river takes water out to the north. People use boats on it to move things from one place to another. Long ago, big boats with steam engines carried people and goods across it. Today, there is also oil deep under the water that people want to use.
Lake Baikal\n\nLake Baikal is a very big lake in a cold part of Russia. It is the deepest lake on Earth and holds a lot of fresh water. The water is so clear you can see far down. It is home to many fish and a special kind of seal that lives only there. In winter, the top of the lake freezes into thick ice that people can walk on. Many rivers flow into it, but only one river flows out.
Lake Chad\n\nLake Chad is a big, wide lake in Africa. It sits on the edge of a hot, sandy desert. It gives water to many people in four countries around it. The lake can get much smaller when there is little rain. Long ago, old bones of early people were found in its dry mud.
Lake District\n\nThe Lake District is a big, pretty place in England. It has many lakes, which are big pools of water, and tall hills called mountains. People go there to walk, sail boats, and look at the green land. It is a special park where animals and trees are kept safe. Many families visit to play and rest.
Lake Erie\n\nLake Erie is a very big lake. It is one of five big lakes called the Great Lakes. It sits between the United States and Canada. Many rivers bring water into it, and the water then flows out past big cities. It is so big that you can see it on a map. People use it for boats and for fun.
Lake Eyre\n\nLake Eyre is a very big, flat lake in the middle of Australia. It is the lowest place in the country. Most of the time, it is dry and covered with white salt. When rain comes, water fills it up and it becomes the biggest lake in Australia. The water is often pink because of tiny living things in it. Many birds fly there when there is water. People sometimes sail small boats on it when it is full.
Lake Huron\n\nLake Huron is a very big lake. It is one of the five Great Lakes in North America. It is so big that it touches two countries: the United States and Canada. The water is deep and blue. Big boats carry heavy things like iron across it. There are small towns by the water, but no huge cities. The water from Lake Huron flows into a river and then into another lake called Lake Erie. A long time ago, a big storm with strong winds formed right over the lake. Some people called it a hurricane on the lake.
Lake Malawi\n\nLake Malawi is a very big lake in Africa. It has water that is deep and blue. Three countries share it: Malawi, Mozambique, and Tanzania. Many fish live in it, and people catch them for food. Some fish are bright and colorful, like a rainbow. People also swim and ride boats on it. It is one of the biggest lakes in the whole world.
Lake Michigan\n\nLake Michigan is a very big body of water. It is one of five big lakes in North America. It looks like a giant blue blanket under the sky. You can find it next to four states: Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, and Michigan. Many people live near it in big cities like Chicago. They swim in it, sail boats on it, and play on its sandy beaches. It is so big that you cannot see the other side.
Lake Nicaragua\n\nLake Nicaragua is a very big lake. It sits in a warm country called Nicaragua. A river joins it to another lake nearby. It has many tiny islands and two big fire mountains inside it. Another river takes its water all the way to the big blue sea.
Lake Ontario\n\nLake Ontario is a very big pool of water. It is one of five big lakes called the Great Lakes. It sits between the country of Canada and the state of New York in the United States. Water from Niagara Falls flows into it, and water flows out of it into a big river called the Saint Lawrence River. Many people live near it. It is deep, deeper than some other Great Lakes. You can see boats on it in the summer.
Lake Superior\n\nLake Superior is a very big lake. It sits between Canada and the United States. It is so big that it looks like a sea. Many kinds of fish live in it. Big boats carry heavy rocks and other things across it. Some people call it by an old name, Gitchigume. It is one of five big lakes that are all close together.
Lake Titicaca\n\nLake Titicaca is a very big lake high up in the mountains. It sits between two countries, Peru and Bolivia. The water is deep and blue. It has many islands, some made of floating reeds by people called the Uros. These islands look golden and can move on the water. People live on the islands and use boats to travel. The lake is home to a big frog and a bird that cannot fly. Many visitors come to see the lake and the islands.
Lake Victoria\n\nLake Victoria is a very big lake in Africa. It is so big that three countries touch its water: Tanzania, Uganda, and Kenya. It is the biggest lake in all of Africa. A long river called the White Nile starts here and flows away. Many people live near it and use its water for drinking and washing. Boats carry people and things across it. It is home to many fish and birds.
Lake Vostok\n\nLake Vostok is a big lake hidden under thick ice in a very cold place called Antarctica. It sits far below the ground, under a heavy blanket of ice. The water in it stays liquid even when it is very cold, because the ice on top pushes down so hard. It has more air in its water than most lakes. Scientists found it using special tools that can see through ice. They think tiny living things might be in it, but it is too hard to reach them.
Lake Winnipeg\n\nLake Winnipeg is a very big lake in Canada. It is full of water and looks like a giant blue blanket on the ground. You can find it north of a city called Winnipeg. Many small towns sit next to it, where people live and play. In summer, families go there to swim and sail boats. In winter, the top of it turns to ice. People can walk or skate on the frozen water.
Lakshmi\n\nLakshmi is a kind and loving goddess. She has four arms and sits on a big pink flower called a lotus. People in India pray to her for money, good luck, and being smart. They think of her during a happy festival with lights called Diwali. She wears pretty gold rings and necklaces. Big gray elephants often stand near her.
Lamb\n\nA lamb is a baby sheep. It has soft, white wool all over its body and four small legs. You can find it on a farm with its mommy sheep. It drinks milk from its mom and likes to run and play in the grass. When it grows up, people use its wool to make warm clothes.
Lamp\n\nA lamp is a thing that gives light. It has a bulb inside that glows when you turn it on. You can find a lamp on a desk, next to a bed, or on the floor in a room. People use it to see when it is dark outside. A small lamp by your bed helps you read a book before sleep.
Lamprey\n\nA lamprey is a long, thin fish that lives in water. It looks like a snake or an eel, but it has no scales. Its mouth is round like a circle and has many tiny sharp teeth inside. It uses this mouth to hold on to rocks or other fish. You can find it in rivers and in the sea, mostly in places that are not too hot and not too cold. It has seven small holes on each side of its body to help it breathe.
Lance\n\nA lance is a long, pointy stick. It looks like a very big pencil with a sharp end. Long ago, people on horses used it to protect themselves. They held it in one hand and pointed it forward. You might see a lance in a storybook about knights or in a parade with flags.
Land\n\nLand is the dry part of Earth that is not covered by water. It has dirt, sand, rocks, and soil. You can walk, run, and play on it. Some land is flat, and some land is bumpy with hills and mountains. People build houses, schools, and roads on it. Farmers use it to grow food like corn and apples. Animals like cows, horses, and dogs live on it too. A big piece of land is called a continent, and a small piece with water all around is called an island.
Land transport\n\nLand transport is how people and things move from one place to another on the ground. It can be a car, a bus, a train, or a big truck. You see it every day on roads and train tracks. People use it to go to school, to the store, or to visit friends. A yellow school bus is one kind of land transport that many children ride.
Landfill\n\nA landfill is a big hole in the ground where trash goes. It is far from houses because it smells bad. Trucks bring bags of old food, paper, and broken toys. Big machines push the trash down flat and cover it with dirt. Over time, the trash makes a gas that can be used to make power. You cannot play there because it is not safe.
Landform\n\nA landform is a shape that the ground makes. It can be big like a mountain or small like a hill. You can see it outside when you look at the land around you. Some landforms are made by water moving over the ground for a long time. A valley is a landform that is low between hills. A beach is a landform where the land meets the sea.
Landscape architecture\n\nLandscape architecture is a way of making outdoor places look nice and work well. It is about planning gardens, parks, and open spaces where people can walk and play. A person who does this job is called a landscape architect. They think about where to put trees, flowers, paths, and benches. You can see their work in a city park with a pond and a playground, or in a school garden with flowers and a little bridge.
Landscape painting\n\nA landscape painting is a picture of the land outside. It shows things like hills, trees, rivers, and fields. Sometimes it shows a real place, and sometimes it shows a place the painter made up in their head. You can see it hanging on a wall in a house or a big building. The painter uses colors to make the sky look blue and the grass look green. It helps people feel like they are standing in a pretty outdoor spot.
Landslide\n\nA landslide is when a lot of dirt, rocks, and mud slide down a hill or a mountain. It happens when the ground on a slope gets loose and heavy. Rain can make the dirt very wet and soft, so it slips down fast. Sometimes the ground shakes and that starts a landslide too. It can cover roads, houses, and trees with mud and rocks. People who live near steep hills watch out for landslides after big storms.
Lane\n\nA lane is a narrow road. It is smaller than a big street and often has trees or bushes on the sides. You can find it in the countryside or in a quiet part of a town. Cars drive slowly on it, and people also walk or ride bikes there. Sometimes a lane is so small that only one car can go at a time.
Language\n\nLanguage is how people talk to each other. It uses words and rules to put words together. You can speak it with your mouth, write it on paper, or make signs with your hands. Every person learns a language when they are very little. The language you learn is the one your family and friends speak. There are many languages in the world, like English, Spanish, and Chinese. Some languages are made up so people from different places can talk, like Esperanto. Language helps you tell others what you think and feel.
Language family\n\nA language family is a group of languages that are like brothers and sisters. They all grew from one very old language that people spoke a long, long time ago. The words and the way the words go together are a little bit the same in each language. You can find these language families all over the world. For example, Spanish and French are in the same family. They both came from an old language called Latin. Some languages do not have any brothers or sisters, so they are all alone.
Lantern\n\nA lantern is a light you can carry or hang up. It has a bright part inside, like a candle or a small bulb, and a see-through cover that keeps the wind away. You can find it at a camp, on a porch, or at a party with pretty colors. People use it to see in the dark when there is no lamp nearby. Some lanterns float up into the night sky like tiny stars.
Laos\n\nLaos is a country in a part of the world called Southeast Asia. It has no beach or ocean touching it. It is next to five other countries. A big river called the Mekong runs along one side of it. Many people in Laos grow food on farms. The houses and streets are not too crowded because not many people live there. You might see a picture of a golden temple with a pointy roof from Laos.
Lap\n\nA lap is the flat top part of your legs when you sit down. It is the place where a cat or a small dog likes to curl up and sleep. When you sit on the floor, you can put a book or a toy on it. A grown-up might let you sit on their lap to read a story. It feels warm and safe.
Lard\n\nLard is a soft white fat that comes from a pig. It looks like butter but feels a little greasy. People use it in the kitchen to cook food. Long ago, many cooks put it in pies and bread to make them flaky and tasty. Some bakers still use it today because it makes the crust very light. You can find it in a store near the butter and oil.
Large\n\nLarge means something is very big. It takes up a lot of space. A house is large, but a mouse is not. An elephant is a large animal with big ears and a long nose. A truck is a large car that can carry heavy things. When you see a big, tall tree, you can say it is large.
Large intestine\n\nThe large intestine is a long tube inside your belly. It is wider than the small tube that comes before it. It takes water out of the food your body does not need. What is left becomes poop, which stays there until you go to the bathroom. You can feel it working when your tummy rumbles.
Lark\n\nA lark is a small brown bird. It has feathers that look like the dry ground where it lives. You can find it in open fields and places with not many trees. It sings pretty songs while flying high up in the sky. Some people wake up early to hear it sing in the morning.
Larva\n\nA larva is a baby animal that looks very different from its mom or dad. It comes out of an egg and is very small. You can find it in water, on leaves, or in the ground. It eats and grows, and later it changes shape into an adult. A caterpillar is a larva that turns into a butterfly. A tadpole is a larva that turns into a frog.
Laser\n\nA laser is a special light. It is a thin, straight beam of light that is all one color. You can see a red dot from a laser pointer in a classroom or at home. People use it to point at things on a board. It also reads music from a CD or a movie from a DVD. A laser can cut metal or help doctors fix eyes.
Last\n\nLast means at the very end. It is the one that comes after all the others. When you line up for a drink, the last person is the one at the back. In a race, the last runner finishes after everyone else. At bedtime, the last story is the one you hear before you close your eyes.
Latch\n\nA latch is a small lock that keeps a door or gate closed. It has a metal bar that slides into a hole or hook. You can find it on a garden gate, a fence, or a cabinet door. When you push the bar up or down, it opens so you can go through. A latch is easy for little hands to use. It makes a click sound when it closes tight.
Late\n\nLate means you did not come on time. It is when you get to a place after the clock says you should be there. If school starts at 8 and you come at 8:10, you are late. It can happen when you wake up too slow, or when the car gets stuck in a long line of other cars. Being late can make a friend wait for you. It feels better to be early or right on time.
Later\n\nLater means after some time has passed. It is not now, but a little while from now. When you wait for your turn on the swing, you go later. Mom might say, "We will have a snack later." That means you will eat soon, but not right this second. You can use later when you talk about something that will happen after playtime or after a nap.
Lathe\n\nA lathe is a machine that helps people shape wood or metal. It has a motor that spins a piece of wood or metal very fast. While it spins, a sharp tool cuts away little bits to make a shape. You can find a lathe in a workshop or a factory. People use it to make round things like baseball bats, table legs, and candle holders. A potter's wheel is a kind of lathe that spins clay to make bowls and cups.
Latin\n\nLatin is a very old language. It was spoken a long, long time ago in a place called Rome. Today, people do not speak it as their first language, so we call it a dead language. But it is still used in some churches and by scientists who name plants and animals. Many words we use today, like in Spanish and French, came from Latin.
Latin America\n\nLatin America is a big part of the world. It is made of many countries where people speak Spanish or Portuguese. You find it below the United States, all the way down to the bottom of South America. It has warm places, big forests, and long beaches. People there make happy music and colorful art. They eat foods like tacos and rice with beans. Many children play soccer in the streets. Some people live in big cities, and some live in small villages. Not everyone has the same amount of money, and some families are very poor.
Latin American literature\n\nLatin American literature is stories and poems made by people from Latin America. It is written in Spanish or Portuguese, but sometimes in other languages too. You can find it in books at a library or a store. It often mixes real life with magic, like a dream. One famous story is about a family with many strange and wonderful things happening to them.
Latin script\n\nLatin script is a set of letters we use to write words. It has 26 letters, like A, B, C, all the way to Z. You see it in books, on signs, and on your toys. People use it to write English and many other languages. When you learn your ABCs, you are learning Latin script.
Latitude\n\nLatitude is a way to tell how far north or south a place is on Earth. It is measured in lines that go around the Earth like a belt. The line in the middle is called the equator, and it is zero. Places above the equator have north latitude, and places below have south latitude. The very top of the Earth is 90 degrees north, and the very bottom is 90 degrees south. You can see latitude lines on a map or a globe. They help people find where a city or a country is.
Latvia\n\nLatvia is a country in Europe. It is next to the sea, with forests and rivers. People there speak a language called Latvian. The biggest city is Riga, where many people live. A long time ago, other countries ruled Latvia, but now it is free. It is part of a big group of countries that help each other.
Laugh\n\nA laugh is a happy sound you make with your mouth. It comes out when something is funny or silly. You can hear it when friends play together or when someone tells a joke. A laugh makes your belly shake and your face smile. It feels good and can make other people laugh too.
Launch\n\nA launch is when something big starts moving up into the sky. It can be a rocket that goes to space. You might see it on TV with fire and smoke coming out the bottom. People use a launch to send things like satellites or astronauts way up high. A launch is very loud and fast.
Launch vehicle\n\nA launch vehicle is a big, tall machine that sends things into space. It looks like a long tube with fire coming out the bottom. You can see it at a space center, standing on a big flat field before it goes up. It pushes satellites, space ships, and people way up high above the clouds. Some of them can only fly one time, but a few can come back and fly again. When it takes off, it makes a loud roar and bright light.
Laundry\n\nLaundry is the job of washing clothes. It makes clothes clean and fresh again. You can do it at home in a room with a washing machine. The machine spins the clothes in soapy water, then rinses them with clean water. After that, the clothes go into a dryer or hang on a line to dry. Sometimes a hot iron makes them flat and smooth. You might see a basket of clean, warm clothes that smell nice.
Lava\n\nLava is hot, melted rock that comes out of a volcano. It is red, orange, or yellow and glows like fire. You can find it when a mountain with a hole on top, called a volcano, opens up. It flows down the side of the volcano like a slow, thick river. When it cools down, it turns into hard, black rock. Some lava moves fast and looks like shiny ropes. Other lava moves so slowly that it piles up in big, sharp chunks. Underwater, it makes round shapes that look like pillows. People must stay far away because it is very, very hot and can burn things.
Lavender\n\nLavender is a plant with pretty purple flowers. It has a sweet, strong smell that many people love. You can find it in gardens and sunny fields. People pick the flowers and dry them to make little bags that keep clothes smelling nice. Some people use it in food, like cookies or tea, to give a soft flower taste. The oil from it can help you feel calm before sleep. At a wedding, people sometimes throw the dried flowers like tiny purple confetti.
Law\n\nLaw is a set of rules that people must follow. It tells everyone what they can and cannot do. Police and courts help make sure people follow the rules. If someone breaks a rule, they may have to pay money or go to a special room called jail. Laws are made by leaders that people choose. They write the rules down so everyone can know them. A lawyer is a person who knows a lot about the rules and helps other people with them. Laws help keep everyone safe and fair.
Lawn\n\nA lawn is a big, soft, green carpet of grass. It grows outside around houses, schools, and parks. People cut it with a noisy machine to keep it short and neat. You can run, play, or sit on it when the sun is warm. Sometimes you see tiny flowers like daisies hiding in it. A lawn feels cool and tickly under your bare feet.
Lawn mower\n\nA lawn mower is a machine that cuts grass. It has a sharp part that spins very fast to make the grass short. Some are small and you push them with your hands. Big ones have a seat so you can ride on top. You see it outside on green lawns at homes, parks, and big fields. People use it to keep the grass neat and tidy.
Lawsuit\n\nA lawsuit is when two people or groups ask a judge to fix a fight. It starts when one side says the other side did something wrong. Both sides have a helper called a lawyer who talks to the judge. They show proof and tell the judge their story. The judge listens and then picks who is right. The side that wins may get money or make the other side stop doing the wrong thing.
Lawyer\n\nA lawyer is a person who helps with rules called laws. He knows a lot about these rules and how to use them. You can find him in a big room called a court, where people talk about problems. He talks for a person who has a problem, and he tries to make things fair. If someone is in trouble, he helps tell their side of the story.
Lay\n\nTo lay means to put something down flat. You can lay a book on a table or lay a blanket on a bed. When you lay a toy on the floor, it stays still. A hen lays eggs in a nest. You might lay your head on a pillow when you are sleepy.
Layer\n\nA layer is one flat piece that sits on top of another piece. It is like a blanket on a bed. You can find layers in a cake, where one sweet part sits on another. In the ground, dirt has layers of sand and rock. When you put on clothes, you wear a shirt as one layer and a coat as another layer. Layers help keep things warm or make them tall.
Lead\n\nLead means to go first and show the way. When you hold a friend's hand and walk to the playground, you lead them. A teacher leads the class by telling everyone what to do next. In a line, the person at the very front leads all the others. You can also lead a song by starting to sing so others join in.
Leader\n\nA leader is a person who helps a group decide what to do. He or she shows the way and keeps everyone working together. You can find a leader in a classroom, on a sports team, or in a family. A leader listens to others and makes sure everyone is safe and happy. For example, a teacher is a leader who helps children learn new things every day.
Leaf\n\nA leaf is a flat, green part of a plant. It grows on a stem or a branch. You can find it on trees, bushes, and small plants in your yard or a park. It makes food for the plant using sunlight, air, and water. In fall, many leaves turn red, yellow, or orange and fall to the ground. Some leaves are big, like the ones on a sunflower, and some are tiny, like the ones on a little weed.
Leak\n\nA leak is when water or air comes out of a hole where it should not. It can happen in a pipe under the sink or in a hose in the yard. When there is a leak, you might see a puddle on the floor or hear a drip-drip sound. A grown-up can fix it by putting a patch on the hole or by calling a plumber. If you see a leak, you should tell a big person so it does not make a mess.
Leaning Tower of Pisa\n\nThe Leaning Tower of Pisa is a tall, round building in Italy. It looks like it is about to fall over because it tilts to one side. It is a bell tower, so it has big bells at the top. People can climb up 294 steps inside it to see far away. The ground under it is soft, so it started to lean a long time ago. Workers fixed it so it would not fall down. Many people visit it to take funny pictures.
Leap\n\nA leap is a big jump. It is when you push off the ground with both feet and fly through the air for a moment. You can leap over a puddle on the sidewalk or leap from one rock to another at the park. A frog leaps from a lily pad into the water. A dancer leaps across the stage. It makes you feel light and free.
Leap year\n\nA leap year is a year with one extra day. It has 366 days instead of 365. The extra day is added to February, so February has 29 days instead of 28. This extra day is called a leap day. We have leap years because the Earth takes a little more than 365 days to go around the Sun. Without the extra day, the seasons would slowly move on the calendar. Leap years happen every four years, like 2024 and 2028. But some years that can be divided by 100 are not leap years, unless they can also be divided by 400.
Learn\n\nTo learn is to find out something new. It happens when you listen, look, or try things. You learn at school when a teacher shows you letters and numbers. You also learn at home when you help cook or tie your shoes. Every day you learn a little bit more about the world.
Learner\n\nA learner is a person who is learning something new. It can be a child at school, a grown-up at work, or anyone who wants to know more. A learner asks questions and tries hard to understand. When you learn to tie your shoes or count to ten, you are a learner. Everyone is a learner at some time in life.
Learning\n\nLearning is how you get to know new things. It happens when you try something, watch someone, or listen to a teacher. You can learn at school, at home, or when you play with friends. When you learn, your brain gets stronger and makes new paths. You learn to count, to read, and to tie your shoes. Every day you learn a little more.
Leash\n\nA leash is a long strap that you hold when you walk a dog. It clips onto the dog's collar or harness so the dog stays close and safe. You can find it at a pet store or in a park where people walk their dogs. It helps you guide the dog and stop it from running into the street. Many leashes are made of strong cloth or rope, and some have a loop at the end for your hand.
Leather\n\nLeather is a strong, bendy material made from animal skin. It comes from cows, pigs, goats, and sometimes other animals. People use it to make shoes, bags, jackets, and balls. It feels smooth and lasts a long time. You can see it on a baseball glove or a belt.
Leave\n\nTo leave means to go away from a place. You leave your house when you walk out the door. You leave the park when it is time to go home. When you leave, you are not in that place anymore. Sometimes you leave a room, and sometimes you leave a big place like a city. It can feel sad to leave a friend, but you can come back another day.
Lebanon\n\nLebanon is a country near the big blue sea. It has tall mountains and a long sandy beach. Many people live there, and they speak Arabic. A green tree called the cedar grows on its mountains. Its biggest city is Beirut, where many people work and play.
Lee\n\nLee is a name that many people have. It can be a first name or a last name. You might meet a boy named Lee at school or in a storybook. Some people spell it with more letters, but Lee is short and easy to say. It is a friendly name that makes you smile.
Leech\n\nA leech is a small worm that lives in wet places. It has a soft body made of many tiny rings. You can find it in ponds, lakes, or damp ground. Some leeches eat tiny bugs, and some drink blood from bigger animals. If you walk in a muddy pond, one might stick to your leg.
Leek\n\nA leek is a long, green and white vegetable. It looks like a tall, skinny stick with flat leaves at the top. You can find it in a garden or at a food store. People cook it in soups and other warm meals. It tastes a little like an onion, but it is softer and sweeter. Some kids see it in a bowl of hot soup on a cold day.
Left\n\nLeft is one side of your body. It is the side where your heart lives. When you hold up your hands, the hand that makes an L shape with the thumb and pointer finger is your left hand. You can turn left when you walk or ride a bike. Many people write with their right hand, but some write with their left hand.
Leg\n\nA leg is a long part of the body that helps you stand and walk. It has a foot at the bottom and a knee in the middle. You have two legs, and they are under your hips. It is used for running, jumping, and kicking a ball. Many animals also have legs, like dogs and cats.
Legend\n\nA legend is a very old story that people tell each other. It is about a person, a place, or a thing that may or may not be real. You can hear it from your grandma or read it in a book. It often has magic or big adventures. Some legends are about a giant man who cut down trees, or a monster that lives in a deep lake. Even if the story is not true, people love to tell it again and again.
Legendary creature\n\nA legendary creature is a make-believe animal from old stories. It can have parts from different real animals, like a lion's body and an eagle's wings. You find it in fairy tales, books, and movies. People tell stories about it, but no one has ever seen a real one. A dragon is one kind of legendary creature. It has big wings and can breathe fire.
Legislature\n\nA legislature is a group of people who make new rules for a place. It meets in a big room with many seats. You can find it in a country, a state, or a city. It talks about ideas and then votes to turn them into laws. For example, a town council is a small legislature that decides about parks and streets.
Leisure\n\nLeisure is free time when you can choose what to do. It is time away from school or work. You can play with toys, draw a picture, or run outside. On a weekend, families often have leisure time together. A vacation is a long stretch of leisure time when you might go to a new place or stay home and rest.
Lemon\n\nA lemon is a small yellow fruit that grows on a tree. It has a thick, bumpy skin and soft, juicy parts inside. You can find it in a store or at a market. It tastes very sour, so people do not eat it like an apple. Instead, they squeeze it to make a drink called lemonade. They also use a little bit of it to add a fresh taste to food. A lemon is a cousin of an orange, but it is much more sour.
Lemonade\n\nLemonade is a cold, sweet drink. It is made from lemons, water, and sugar. It looks yellow and tastes sour and sweet at the same time. You can find it at a lemonade stand, a store, or at home on a hot day. People drink it to cool down when the sun is bright.
Lemur\n\nA lemur is a small animal with soft fur and a long tail. It has big round eyes and pointy ears. It lives only on a big island called Madagascar, in trees. It eats fruit and leaves. It jumps from tree to tree and makes loud calls. Some lemurs have black-and-white rings on their tail. They live in big family groups.
Lena River\n\nThe Lena River is a very long river in a cold, far-away place called Siberia. It looks like a big, winding blue snake on a map. It starts in tall hills and flows all the way to a frozen sea at the top of the world. Boats can carry things on it, and fish live in its water. In winter, much of it turns to ice.
Length\n\nLength is how long something is. It is the space from one end to the other end. You can find length on a pencil, a table, or a piece of string. A ruler is a tool that helps you measure length. It has little lines and numbers on it. Short means a small length, and long means a big length. Length can also mean how much time something takes. If you play from one o'clock to three o'clock, the length of your play is two hours.
Lens\n\nA lens is a clear, curved piece of glass or plastic. It is round and smooth, and it can be thick in the middle or thin at the edges. You find it in glasses, cameras, and telescopes. It helps people see things that are far away or very small by bending light. When you look through a magnifying glass, you are using a lens to make tiny words look big.
Lentil\n\nA lentil is a tiny, flat seed that people eat. It is round like a little button and comes in colors like green, brown, red, or yellow. You find it in bags at the grocery store. People cook it in water to make soup or soft food. It tastes warm and earthy. Many families eat it with rice. It is good for your body because it has things that help you grow strong.
Leo\n\nLeo is a name for a boy. It is a short name with three letters. You might know a friend or a boy in a book named Leo. Sometimes a lion in a story is called Leo, because the word sounds like lion. People with this name can be kind and funny.
Leo Tolstoy\n\nLeo Tolstoy was a man who wrote big books with many words. He lived a long time ago in a faraway land. His most famous book tells a story about a sad lady and a train. Another book is about a big war and many people. He had a long beard and liked to think about how to be good. Many grown-ups read his books even today.
Leonardo\n\nLeonardo is a name for a boy. He is a person who lived a long time ago. He could draw and paint very well. He made a famous picture of a lady with a soft smile. He also thought of new things like a flying machine. Many people still look at his art today.
Leonardo Da Vinci\n\nLeonardo Da Vinci was a man who lived a long, long time ago. He was very good at drawing and painting. He made a famous picture of a lady with a small smile. He also thought of new ideas for flying machines and other clever things. Many people still look at his art and ideas today.
Leopard\n\nA leopard is a big wild cat. It has soft fur that is tan with dark spots shaped like rings. It lives in Africa and Asia, where there are trees and tall grass. It is very good at climbing trees and often rests on branches. It hunts animals like deer and rabbits, mostly at night. A leopard can carry its food up a tree to keep it safe from other animals.
Leprechaun\n\nA leprechaun is a tiny make-believe man from old Irish stories. He looks like a very small old man with a beard, a green hat, and a green coat. He lives in Ireland and hides in the woods or near rainbows. He is very tricky and loves to play little jokes. People say he keeps a pot of gold hidden at the end of a rainbow. If you catch him, he must tell you where the gold is, but if you look away, he disappears in a flash.
Lesotho\n\nLesotho is a small country in Africa. It is completely inside another country called South Africa. It has no sea next to it, so all things must come by land or by plane. It has many tall hills and mountains. In winter, people can go there to play in the snow. The capital city is called Maseru. A king lives there and helps run the country.
Less\n\nLess means a smaller number or a smaller amount. When you have five cookies and your friend has two, your friend has less. It is the opposite of more. You can use less when you talk about water in a cup, toys in a box, or time before bed. If you pour out some water, there is less water in the cup.
Lesson\n\nA lesson is a time when you learn something new. It happens at school with a teacher and other kids. You sit at a desk and listen, draw, or sing. A lesson can be about numbers, letters, or how plants grow. Sometimes you learn a lesson outside, like when you touch something hot and learn not to do it again.
Let\n\nLet is a small word we use when we want to allow something. It means "it is okay to do." You might hear it when a grown-up says, "I will let you have a cookie." It is also in games like hide-and-seek when someone says, "Let's go!" It helps us tell others that something is allowed or that we want to do something together.
Letter\n\nA letter is a small mark we use to write words. It is one of the shapes in the ABCs. You see letters in books, on signs, and on your toys. Each letter has a sound, and we put them together to make words like "cat" or "dog." The English ABC has 26 letters, from A to Z. Some letters are big, like A, and some are small, like a. When you learn your ABCs, you learn all the letters.
Lettuce\n\nLettuce is a green plant that people eat. It has soft, leafy parts that can be green or sometimes red. You can find it in gardens, on farms, or at the grocery store. People eat it cold in salads, on burgers, or in sandwiches. Some kinds grow in a tight round ball, and some have loose, wavy leaves. A common kind is the one with long, crisp leaves called romaine.
Levee\n\nA levee is a long, raised wall of dirt or stone. It stands next to a river or the sea. It keeps water from spilling over onto the land when the water gets high. People build it to keep houses and farms safe from floods. You can see a levee as a big grassy hill that runs along the water. Some are made by people, and some are made by nature. In some places, people walk or ride bikes on top of it.
Level\n\nA level is a tool that shows if something is flat and straight. It has a long body with a small tube of water and a bubble inside. You find it in a toolbox or with a builder. People use it when they hang a picture or build a shelf. If the bubble sits in the middle, the thing is not tilted.
Lever\n\nA lever is a simple tool that helps you lift or move heavy things. It is a long, straight stick or bar that rests on a point called a fulcrum. You can find levers in many places, like on a playground seesaw or in a pair of scissors. When you push down on one end, the other end goes up. This makes a small push feel strong enough to lift something big. A crowbar is another lever that helps open boxes or move rocks.
Leviathan\n\nLeviathan is a big monster from old stories. It lives deep in the sea. It looks like a giant snake or a huge fish with sharp teeth. People long ago were scared of it because it could break boats. Some think it is like a whale, but much bigger and meaner.
Lhasa\n\nLhasa is a city way up high in the mountains. It sits in a place called Tibet, where the air is thin and the sky is very blue. In this city, you can see big, old buildings with gold roofs and bright colors. One of them is a giant palace on a hill. People go there to pray and feel close to their gods. Many visitors come from far away to see these special places.
Liberalism\n\nLiberalism is a way of thinking about how people should live together. It says that everyone should be free to make their own choices. It also says that people should be kind and fair to each other. In a place with liberalism, you can say what you think and pick your own job. It is like when you share toys so everyone gets a turn.
Liberia\n\nLiberia is a country in Africa. It sits next to the big ocean, and it has warm weather all year. Much of it is covered with tall green trees and thick forests. Many people live in the main city called Monrovia. Long ago, freed people came from America to start a new home there. Today, people in Liberia speak English and grow rubber trees. Rubber from the trees is used to make things like boots and balls.
Liberty\n\nLiberty means you can choose what to do. It is like when you pick which toy to play with. People have liberty when they can say what they think and go where they want. In some places, a big statue called the Statue of Liberty stands tall to remind everyone about being free.
Librarian\n\nA librarian is a person who works in a library. He or she helps people find books to read. The librarian keeps the books neat on the shelves. He or she can show you where the picture books are. You can ask the librarian for a story about animals or trucks. He or she is very kind and loves to share books with everyone.
Library\n\nA library is a special room or building full of books. It has tall shelves where books sit in neat rows. You can find a library in many towns, schools, and big cities. People go there to pick a book and take it home for a little while. A helper called a librarian shows you where to look. Some libraries also have movies, music, and computers. It is a quiet place to read and learn new things.
Library of Congress\n\nThe Library of Congress is a very big building full of books. It is in the United States, near the White House. Inside, it has millions of books, maps, and old papers. People can go there to read and learn new things. It also keeps a copy of every book made in the country. It is the biggest library in the whole world.
Libya\n\nLibya is a big country in Africa. It has sand, sun, and a long blue sea at the top. Most of the land is dry and hot, with a huge desert called the Sahara. Many people live in cities by the water, like Tripoli. They speak Arabic and follow a religion called Islam. Long ago, people found oil under the ground, and now Libya sells it to other places.
Lichen\n\nA lichen is a tiny living thing made of two friends that help each other. It looks like a flat, crusty patch or a little bushy plant. You can find it on rocks, tree bark, old walls, and roofs. It does not need much water and can live in very cold or very hot places. Some animals, like reindeer, eat it in winter.
Lick\n\nA lick is when you touch something with your tongue. It feels wet and soft. You can lick a lollipop or an ice cream cone to taste it. Animals like dogs and cats lick their fur to clean it. A dog might also lick your hand to show it likes you.
Lid\n\nA lid is the top part of a box, jar, or pot. It covers the opening to keep things inside safe and clean. You can find it in the kitchen on a pot of soup or on a jar of cookies. When you twist it or lift it, you can open the container. A lid can be made of metal, plastic, or glass. It helps stop spills and keeps food fresh.
Lie\n\nA lie is when someone says something that is not true on purpose. It is a trick with words. You might hear a lie at home or at school. People tell lies to hide a mistake or to get something they want. A small lie to make someone feel better is called a white lie. For example, saying you like a gift even if you do not is a white lie.
Life\n\nLife is something that can grow, make more of itself, and change. It is all around us. You can see it in a dog, a tree, a flower, and even in tiny things you cannot see with your eyes. All living things need water and food to stay alive. They can be big like a whale or small like a bug. A baby is a new life that grows inside its mommy. Life is very special because it can do so many things.
Lift\n\nA lift is something that moves people up and down inside a tall building. It is a small room with doors that open and close. You find it in places like big stores, hotels, and apartment houses. When you press a button, it takes you to a different floor without using stairs. It helps people who cannot walk up steps, like grandmas or people with wheelchairs.
Lift (force)\n\nLift is a push that goes up. It helps a big metal bird called an airplane stay in the sky. You cannot see it, but it is made when air moves fast over and under the wings. The wings push air down, and the air pushes the wings up. This same push also helps a toy with spinning blades fly up. A fan on a hot day uses a kind of lift to move air, too.
Ligament\n\nA ligament is a strong, stretchy band inside your body. It ties one bone to another bone at a joint. It helps hold your bones together so they do not move too far. You can find it in places like your knee, your elbow, and your wrist. When you run and jump, it keeps your joints safe and steady.
Light\n\nLight is what lets you see things. It comes from the sun, a lamp, or a fire. When it is dark, there is no light. Light moves very fast and goes in a straight line. It can be many colors. You see these colors in a rainbow: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and purple. When light hits something you cannot see through, it makes a dark shape called a shadow. Light keeps us warm and helps plants grow.
Light bulb\n\nA light bulb is a thing that makes light when you turn it on. It is made of glass and has a small part inside that glows. You find it in lamps, on the ceiling, and in many rooms of a house. It helps people see when it is dark outside. Some light bulbs are round, and some are long tubes. When you flip a switch, it lights up the room so you can play or read a book.
Light microscope\n\nA light microscope is a tool that makes tiny things look big. It has a flat part called a stage where you put a small glass slide. A light at the bottom shines up through the slide. You look through the top part, and the lenses make the tiny thing look much bigger. You can see things like little dots that are really tiny living things. Some light microscopes can take pictures instead of having a top to look through.
Light year\n\nA light year is how far light goes in one year. It is a very, very long way. Light moves super fast, so in one year it goes a huge distance. People use it to talk about stars and space. Stars are so far away that we need a big word to say how far. When we see a star, the light left it a long time ago. So we see the star as it was back then.
Lighthouse\n\nA lighthouse is a tall tower by the sea. It has a bright light at the top. The light turns around and around at night. Sailors on boats see the light from far away. It tells them where the land is so they do not crash. Long ago, people lived inside to keep the light on. Now, most lights turn on by themselves. You might see a lighthouse in a picture book or at the beach.
Lighting\n\nLighting is the way we use light to see things. It can come from the sun during the day. It can also come from lamps and lights we turn on at night. In a house, windows let in sunlight to make rooms bright. At night, we use a lamp to read a book before bed. In movies and photos, lighting helps make the picture look pretty.
Lightning\n\nLightning is a big, bright flash of light in the sky. It looks like a jagged line that lights up the clouds. You see it during a storm, when the sky is dark and it rains hard. It makes the air very hot, and that hot air makes a loud boom called thunder. Sometimes it jumps from a cloud to the ground. It can hit tall things like trees or buildings. If you see lightning, go inside a house to stay safe.
Like\n\nLike is a feeling you have when something makes you happy. It is a warm, good feeling inside. You can like a toy, a food, or a friend. When you like something, you smile and want to be near it. You might say, "I like this!" when you see your favorite snack. Liking is not as big as loving, but it still feels very nice.
Likely\n\nLikely means something will probably happen. It is a word we use when we think something is almost sure to be true. If the sky is full of dark clouds, it is likely to rain. If you see a friend holding a ball, it is likely they want to play. It is not the same as 'for sure,' but it is a very good guess.
Lily\n\nA lily is a tall flower with big, soft petals. It grows from a round bulb under the ground. You can find it in gardens, forests, and grassy hills. It comes in many colors like white, pink, yellow, and orange. The petals are often shaped like a trumpet or a star. Some lilies have spots on the petals. People like to put lilies in a vase at home. But be careful—if a cat eats any part of a lily, it can make the cat very sick.
Lily of the valley\n\nLily of the valley is a small plant with pretty white flowers. It has little bell-shaped flowers that hang down from a thin green stem. It grows in cool places like forests and gardens. The flowers smell very sweet, but the whole plant is not safe to eat. You might see it in a park or in a flower shop in spring.
Lima\n\nLima is a big city in the country of Peru. It is the most important city there, where the leaders work. Many people live in Lima—more than eight million. It has tall buildings, busy streets, and a big port for ships. People come to Lima to see old places, eat yummy food, and visit museums. Long ago, a man from Spain started the city. Today, most people in Lima speak Spanish.
Lima bean\n\nA lima bean is a small, flat seed that people eat. It is light green or white and looks like a tiny, smooth pebble. You can find it in gardens, at the store in bags or cans, and in warm meals like soup. People cook it until it is soft and then eat it with a spoon or fork. It tastes mild and a little buttery, so some call it a butter bean. You might see it mixed with corn or carrots on your plate.
Lime\n\nA lime is a small green fruit that grows on a tree. It is round and has a sour, sharp taste. The inside is soft and juicy, and the skin is bright green. If it stays on the tree a long time, it can turn yellow. People use lime juice in drinks like lemonade and in food to add a fresh flavor. Sailors long ago ate limes to stay healthy on long boat trips.
Limestone\n\nLimestone is a kind of rock. It is often white, gray, or yellow. You can find it in the ground or in big hills. People cut it into blocks to build houses and churches. It is also used to make glass and cement. Some limestone has old shells and bones inside it from long ago.
Limit\n\nA limit is a line you cannot cross. It tells you how far you can go or how much you can do. When you play tag, the fence might be the limit. Your mom might set a limit on how many cookies you can eat. It keeps things safe and fair.
Limpopo River\n\nThe Limpopo River is a long, winding river in Africa. It flows through four countries: South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, and Mozambique. It marks part of the edge of South Africa. At the end, it empties into the big Indian Ocean. People and animals use its water to drink and to help plants grow.
Lincoln\n\nLincoln is a name for a boy. It was the last name of a man who was a leader of America a long time ago. He was very tall and wore a tall black hat. You can see his face on a small brown coin called a penny. Many schools and streets have his name too.
Line\n\nA line is a long, thin mark that goes on and on. It can be straight, like a pencil line on paper. It can also be curved, like the edge of a round plate. A line has no thickness, only length. You can draw a line with a crayon or a stick in the sand. A short piece of a line is called a line segment. Two lines can cross each other or run side by side.
Linear\n\nLinear means something that goes in a straight line. It is like a row of blocks, one after the other, with no turns or curves. You can see it in a line of ants walking on the ground. When you draw with a ruler, you make a linear mark. A train track that goes straight is linear too.
Linen\n\nLinen is a kind of cloth. It comes from a plant called flax. The plant has tall, thin stems. People take the stems and make soft threads from them. Then they weave the threads into linen. It feels cool and light on your skin. You can find it in summer shirts, dresses, and tablecloths. Long ago, people wrapped mummies in linen. Today, many people like it because it is strong and dries fast.
Linguistics\n\nLinguistics is the study of how people talk and use words. It looks at the sounds we make, like 'mmm' and 'ahh', and how we put them together to say things. You can find it everywhere people are talking—at home, at school, on TV. It helps us understand why we say 'cat' and not 'dog' for a furry pet. When you learn a new word, you are doing a little bit of linguistics.
Link\n\nA link is a part of a chain. It looks like a small ring or loop. You can find it in a necklace, on a swing, or on a bike. It joins with other links to make a long, strong chain. When you wear a necklace, the links hold it together around your neck.
Lion\n\nA lion is a big, strong cat. It has a long body, short legs, a big head, and a long tail. The boy lion has thick, fluffy hair around his neck called a mane. Lions live in warm places with lots of grass and some trees. They live together in a big family called a pride. The girl lions work as a team to catch food like zebras and antelopes. A lion makes a very loud roar that you can hear far away. You can see a lion at the zoo or in a picture book.
Lip\n\nA lip is the soft, pink part around your mouth. It has two parts: the top lip and the bottom lip. You use it to talk, eat, and give kisses. When you smile, your lips curve up and show your teeth. In the cold, lips can get dry and need a little balm to feel soft again.
Lipid\n\nA lipid is a kind of fat. It feels slippery and does not mix with water. You can find it in foods like butter, oil, and cheese. Your body uses it to keep warm and to have energy to play. It also helps build the tiny parts inside you, like the walls of your cells.
Liquid\n\nA liquid is a kind of stuff that can flow. It does not have its own shape. It takes the shape of whatever you pour it into. You can find it in many places, like water from a tap or milk in a cup. People drink it, wash with it, or use it to cook. Water, juice, and oil are all liquids.
Liquid crystal display\n\nA liquid crystal display is a flat screen that shows pictures and words. It is thin and light, like a piece of paper. You can find it on a watch, a phone, or a TV. It uses a tiny bit of power to turn little dots on and off. Each dot can be clear or dark, and together they make a picture. Some have a light inside so you can see them in the dark.
Liquorice\n\nLiquorice is a plant root that tastes very sweet. It grows under the ground like a long brown stick. People dig it up and use it to make candy and tea. The candy is often black and chewy. Some people love the taste, but others think it is too strong. The plant has small purple flowers and green leaves. It grows in warm places far away.
Lisbon\n\nLisbon is a big city by the sea. It is the most important city in a country called Portugal. It sits next to a wide river, and the sun shines there on most days. Many old, pretty buildings stand on hills, and yellow trains called trams climb up and down the steep streets. People can eat fresh fish from the ocean and visit sandy beaches close by. It is a very old city where many people live and work.
List\n\nA list is a way to write things down in a row. It helps you remember what to do or buy. You can make a list on paper with a pencil. It often has one thing on each line. A shopping list tells you what to get at the store. A to-do list tells you what jobs to finish. You can check off each thing when it is done.
Listen\n\nListen means to use your ears to hear a sound. It is something you do when you stop talking and pay attention to noises around you. You can listen to a bird singing, a dog barking, or a friend telling a story. When you listen, you stay quiet and focus on what you hear. It helps you learn new things and understand how people feel.
Literacy\n\nLiteracy is knowing how to read and write. It is a skill that helps you understand words in books, on signs, and on screens. Most people learn it at school when they are young. When you can read, you can enjoy stories, follow a recipe, or write a note to a friend. A person who cannot read or write is called illiterate. In some places, many grown-ups never learned to read, so they cannot do things like read a newspaper or fill out a form.
Literature\n\nLiterature is a group of stories and poems made of words. It can be written in a book or told out loud. You find it in a library, at school, or at home when someone reads to you. People read it for fun or to learn about faraway places and long-ago times. A fairy tale like Cinderella is a kind of literature.
Lithuania\n\nLithuania is a country in Europe. It is next to the Baltic Sea. Its flag has three stripes: yellow on top, green in the middle, and red at the bottom. Many people there speak a language called Lithuanian. The biggest city is Vilnius. It has old buildings and big churches. People in Lithuania like to sing and dance at big parties with lots of food.
Litre\n\nA litre is a way to measure how much space something takes up. It is used mostly for liquids like water, milk, or juice. One litre of water is as heavy as a big bag of sugar. You can see a litre at the store on a bottle of soda or a carton of milk. It is the same size as a box that is ten little blocks long, ten blocks wide, and ten blocks tall.
Little\n\nLittle means something is very small. It is the opposite of big. You can use it to talk about a tiny bug, a short story, or a baby animal. When you hold a little rock in your hand, it feels light and easy to carry. A little puppy is smaller than a big dog. Many things around you can be little, like a button on your shirt or a seed in an apple.
Live\n\nTo live means to be alive. A thing that lives can grow, move, and feel. A dog lives, a tree lives, and you live too. When something lives, it needs food, water, and air. It can have babies or make new little ones. A rock does not live because it does not grow or eat.
Liver\n\nThe liver is a soft, red-brown part inside your belly. It sits on the right side, under your ribs. It helps clean your blood and makes a green-yellow juice called bile that helps your body use food. It also stores energy so you can run and play. When you eat meat like chicken or cow, sometimes the liver is cooked and eaten too. It tastes strong and has good things that help you grow.
Livestock\n\nLivestock are animals that people keep on farms. They give us food and other things we use. Some of them are cows, pigs, sheep, goats, and chickens. Cows give milk and meat. Sheep give wool for warm clothes. Chickens give eggs. Some big animals like horses help people pull heavy things. People take care of them every day by giving them food and water. A long time ago, people started keeping these animals near their homes. Today, many of them live on big farms. You can see them in picture books or at a petting zoo.
Lizard\n\nA lizard is a small animal with dry, scaly skin. It has four short legs, a long body, and a long tail. You can find it in warm places like gardens, rocks, or deserts. It eats bugs and tiny animals. If a bigger animal grabs its tail, the tail can fall off and grow back later. Some lizards can change color to hide from danger.
Llama\n\nA llama is a big, fluffy animal from South America. It has long ears, a long neck, and soft, thick fur. It lives high up in the mountains where the air is thin. People keep it to carry heavy bags and to use its warm wool for clothes. Long ago, it helped the Incan people move things over rocky paths. Today, some people keep it as a pet on farms. It likes to be with other llamas and can make a funny spitting sound when it is upset.
Loan\n\nA loan is when someone gives you money and you promise to give it back later. It is not a gift. You pay back a little bit at a time, like putting coins in a jar each week. The person who gives the money may ask for a little extra, called interest. A loan can help buy big things like a house or a car. You can get a loan from a bank.
Lobby\n\nA lobby is a big room inside a building. It is the first room you see when you walk in. You can find it in a hotel, a movie theater, or a big office. People wait in it, meet friends, or walk through it to go to other rooms. It often has chairs, a desk, and sometimes a plant or a big clock.
Lobster\n\nA lobster is a big animal that lives in the sea. It has a hard shell, two big claws, and a long tail. It walks on the bottom of the sea and hides under rocks. People catch it to eat because the meat tastes good. It can live for a very long time and grow very big.
Local\n\nLocal means something is close to where you live. It is the park down the street, the store around the corner, or the school you walk to. You can find local things in your own town or neighborhood. People like local places because they are easy to get to and feel like home. For example, the playground you visit every week is a local spot.
Lock\n\nA lock is a small metal thing that keeps doors, boxes, or gates shut. It has a hole for a key. You turn the key inside it, and it clicks open or closed. You see locks on front doors, school gates, and bike chains. It helps keep your things safe so only the right person can open them.
Lock (water navigation)\n\nA lock is a big box of water that helps boats go up or down a hill. It has tall walls and two strong doors, one at each end. You find it on a river or a long water path called a canal. When a boat comes in, the doors close and the water inside can go up or down. This lets the boat float to a new level and then go out the other door. It is like a water elevator for boats.
Locomotive\n\nA locomotive is the strong front part of a train that pulls the rest. It is big and heavy, much bigger than a car. You see it on train tracks, pulling long lines of cars behind it. It has a powerful engine inside that makes the wheels turn. Some use special fuel like diesel, and some use electricity from wires above. A long time ago, many used steam from hot water. Today, most use diesel to make power. When you watch a train go by, the first thing you see is the locomotive.
Locust\n\nA locust is a kind of bug that can jump and fly. It looks like a grasshopper with long back legs and wings. Sometimes many, many locusts fly together in a big group called a swarm. A swarm can eat all the green leaves on farms very fast. People in some places cook and eat locusts as a special food.
Loft\n\nA loft is a room at the very top of a house. It is right under the roof, so the ceiling can be slanted. You often find it in old houses or big city buildings. People use it as a bedroom, a playroom, or a place to keep boxes. Sometimes you climb a ladder to get up there. It feels cozy and high up, like a secret hideout.
Log\n\nA log is a big piece of a tree that has fallen down. It is long and round, and it has rough brown bark on the outside. You can find it on the ground in a forest or a park. Sometimes people use it to sit on or to make a fire. Bugs and small animals may live inside it.
Logarithm\n\nA logarithm is a way to count how many times you multiply a number to get another number. It is like asking, "How many jumps of the same size do I need to reach a bigger number?" You can find it in math class when you are older. It helps people solve big number puzzles. For example, if you keep doubling 2, a logarithm tells you how many doublings make 8.
Logic\n\nLogic is a way of thinking that helps us know what is true and what is not. It is like a set of rules for our brain. We use it every day when we decide things. For example, if all dogs bark and your pet is a dog, then your pet barks. That is logic. It helps us put ideas in order so they make sense. Computers also use logic to work and play games.
Loire River\n\nThe Loire River is a very long, winding path of water in France. It starts in the hills in the middle of the country and flows all the way to the big, blue ocean near a city called Nantes. It is the longest river in France. Long ago, people used it to move things from one town to another on boats. Now, trains and trucks do that job instead. Many smaller rivers join it along the way, like friends holding hands. If you stand by it, you see water moving slowly, trees on the sides, and maybe a little fish jumping.
Lollipop\n\nA lollipop is a sweet candy on a stick. It is round and comes in many bright colors like red, blue, and yellow. You find it in candy stores or at parties. You hold the stick and lick the candy part until it is all gone. Some lollipops have a surprise inside, like bubble gum or a toy.
London\n\nLondon is a very big city where many people live and work. It has old buildings, tall towers, and a long river called the Thames running through it. You can find it in a country called England, across the ocean. It is the most important city there, where the king or queen sometimes stays and where leaders make rules. Big red buses and trains under the ground help people move around. A giant clock tower named Big Ben stands tall, and a huge wheel called the London Eye lets you see the whole city from up high.
London Underground\n\nThe London Underground is a train system that runs under and above the ground in London. It has many long trains that move on tracks. Some trains go through round tunnels deep under the streets. People use it to go to work, to school, or to visit fun places. You can pay with a special blue card called an Oyster card. Many stations have big moving stairs called escalators. It is one of the oldest train systems in the world.
Lonely\n\nLonely is a feeling you get when you are all by yourself and wish someone was with you. It can feel like a little ache inside your chest. You might feel it when your best friend moves away or when you are the last one picked for a game. It is okay to feel lonely sometimes. A hug, a kind word, or playing with a pet can help the feeling go away.
Long\n\nLong is when something is not short. It means there is a lot of space from one end to the other. A snake is long because its body stretches out far. A road can be long if it goes on and on. When you wait a long time, it feels like many minutes pass.
Long jump\n\nLong jump is a sport where you run and jump as far as you can. It has a long path to run on and a soft sand box to land in. You find it at a track or a big field. People run fast, then push off with one foot and fly through the air. They try to land far in the sand without falling back. A jump is good if you start before a special line on the ground.
Longevity\n\nLongevity means living for a very long time. It is about how many years a person, an animal, or a plant can stay alive. Some people try to eat healthy food and move their body to live longer. In old stories, people looked for magic water or a magic place that could help them live for many, many years. Today, doctors and scientists help people stay healthy so they can live longer, too.
Longitude\n\nLongitude is a way to tell where a place is on Earth. It uses lines that go up and down, from the top of the world to the bottom. These lines are not real; they are drawn on maps and globes. Longitude tells you how far east or west a place is from a special line called the Prime Meridian. It is measured in degrees, like a circle. Sailors long ago had a hard time knowing their longitude at sea, until better clocks were made. The lines get closer together near the North and South Poles.
Look\n\nLook means to use your eyes to see something. When you look, you turn your head and point your eyes at a thing. You can look at a book, a toy, or a friend. Looking helps you know what is around you. You can look for a long time or just a quick peek. Everyone looks many times every day.
Loom\n\nA loom is a machine that makes cloth. It has many strings that go up and down. People push other strings through them to make a flat piece of fabric. Long ago, people used small looms at home. Today, big looms in factories make clothes, blankets, and towels. You might see cloth from a loom on your bed or on your shirt.
Loon\n\nA loon is a bird that lives on water. It is about the size of a big duck. It has a black or gray head, a white chest, and striped feathers on its back. You can find it on lakes in cool places in summer. In winter, it flies to the ocean. It can dive very deep under the water to catch fish. It makes a loud, funny call that sounds like a trumpet or a laugh. It lays two eggs in a nest near the water, and both parents keep the eggs warm.
Loop\n\nA loop is a shape that goes around and around with no end. It looks like a circle or a ring. You can find a loop in a shoelace when you tie a bow. It is used to hold things together, like a belt loop on pants. A roller coaster track also has loops that go upside down.
Loose\n\nLoose means something is not tight. It can be a shirt that is too big and hangs down. It can be a tooth that wiggles and is ready to fall out. When a jar lid is loose, it is easy to open. A loose knot comes apart with a small pull.
Lord's Prayer\n\nThe Lord's Prayer is a special prayer that Christians say. It is a way to talk to God. Jesus taught this prayer to his friends a long time ago. People say it in church, at home, or before bed. It starts with the words "Our Father." Many songs use the words of this prayer.
Los Angeles\n\nLos Angeles is a big city in the state of California. It is near the ocean and has many sunny days. It has tall buildings, long beaches, and big hills. Many people live there, and they speak many different languages. It is famous for making movies and TV shows. You can see the big white Hollywood Sign on a hill. Many movie stars live there. It also has a big park where you can see animals.
Lose\n\nTo lose means you cannot find something you had before. It can be a toy, a sock, or a pet. When you lose a thing, you look around and feel sad. Sometimes you lose a game, and that means the other team wins. It is okay to lose because you can try again.
Lot\n\nA lot is a piece of land. It is a flat or empty space on the ground. You can find a lot in a town or city, often between houses or buildings. People use a lot to build a new house, plant a garden, or park cars. Sometimes a lot is just an open field where kids play or dogs run.
Lottery\n\nA lottery is a game where you pick numbers to win a prize. It is often run by a big group, like a state or a country. You buy a small paper ticket with numbers on it. Later, someone pulls out winning numbers, and if your numbers match, you get money. Many people play it, but only a few win. You might see lottery tickets at a store near the cash register.
Loud\n\nLoud means a sound is very big and strong. It can make your ears feel full or even hurt a little. You hear loud sounds when a fire truck goes by with its siren on, or when someone bangs a drum very hard. A whisper is not loud, but a shout is. Sometimes people cover their ears when something is too loud.
Loudly\n\nLoudly means making a big, strong sound. It is the way you talk or sing when your voice is high and fills the room. You might hear it when someone calls your name from far away. When a fire truck goes by, its siren rings loudly. A drum played with force sounds loudly too. Sometimes people say "shh" when a sound is too loudly.
Loudspeaker\n\nA loudspeaker is a box that makes sound. It has a round paper part inside called a cone. You find it in radios, TVs, and music players. It takes quiet electric signals and turns them into loud sounds we can hear. When you listen to a song or a story, the loudspeaker helps the sound come out big and clear.
Louis\n\nLouis is a name for a boy. It is a short name with two parts: Lou and is. You might meet a boy named Louis at school or at the park. Sometimes a king or a prince has this name. A boy named Louis can have brown hair, black hair, or blond hair. He likes to play and laugh just like other children.
Louis Armstrong\n\nLouis Armstrong was a man who played music. He played a shiny horn called a trumpet. He had a big, warm smile and a deep, happy voice. You can hear him sing and play in old songs on the radio. He made people feel good with his music.
Louis Pasteur\n\nLouis Pasteur was a man who helped keep people healthy. He found that tiny living things called germs can make us sick. He showed that heating milk kills bad germs, so we can drink it safely. He also made a way to stop sickness before it starts, like a shot at the doctor. Many people are alive today because of his work.
Lounge\n\nA lounge is a room where people sit and rest. It has soft chairs and sofas. You can find it in a house, a hotel, or an airport. People use it to talk, read, or wait. It is a calm and cozy place.
Louse\n\nA louse is a tiny bug with no wings. It has six short legs with small claws that help it hold on tight. It lives in hair, fur, or feathers of animals and people. It stays there its whole life and eats tiny bits of skin or blood. A louse egg is called a nit and sticks to hair like glue. You might see one if a grown-up checks your head with a fine comb.
Louvre\n\nThe Louvre is a big building with many old and beautiful things to see. It is in the city of Paris. Inside, you can find paintings and statues. The most famous painting is a picture of a smiling lady. There are also big stone people with no arms and stone wings. Long ago, the building was a castle for a king. Now, many people visit it every day to look at the art.
Love\n\nLove is a warm, happy feeling you have for someone very special. It feels like a big hug inside your heart. You can feel love for your mom, your dad, your pet, or your best friend. When you love someone, you want to be near them and make them smile. You might draw them a picture or share your favorite toy. Love makes you feel safe and cared for, like when you are tucked into bed at night.
Lovely\n\nLovely means something is very nice to look at or be with. It can be a pretty flower, a soft song, or a warm hug. When you see a rainbow or a cute puppy, that is lovely. It makes you feel happy and smile. People say "that is lovely" when they see something sweet or kind.
Low\n\nLow means something is close to the ground. It is the opposite of high. A small stool is low, and a tall ladder is not. You can duck under a low branch when you walk outside. A low voice is quiet and soft, like a whisper. When you play hide-and-seek, you can hide low behind a chair.
Luanda\n\nLuanda is a big city by the ocean. It is the most important city in a country called Angola. Many people live there, and big boats come to its port. Long ago, people from a faraway land built it. Today, it has many houses, streets, and markets. Some parts of the city are still broken from a long fight, but people are fixing them.
Lucky\n\nLucky is a happy feeling when something good happens. It feels like a warm smile inside. You can feel lucky when you find a shiny penny on the ground. You can also feel lucky when you get an extra cookie after dinner. Some people think a four-leaf clover brings lucky feelings. It is a nice feeling that makes you want to jump up and down.
Lucy\n\nLucy is a name for a girl. She is a person, just like you. You might meet a Lucy at school or at the park. She could have a big smile and like to play. Sometimes you see the name Lucy in a storybook.
Luge\n\nLuge is a winter sport where a person lies on a small sled and slides down an icy track. The sled is flat and has no brakes. It is found on special icy tracks made for sliding sports. People use it to race down the track as fast as they can. It is very fast and can be dangerous. You might see it on TV during the Winter Olympics.
Lullaby\n\nA lullaby is a soft, gentle song. It is slow and quiet, like a rocking chair. Moms and dads sing it to a baby at bedtime. It helps the baby feel safe and fall asleep. You may know the song "Rock-a-bye Baby" — that is a lullaby.
Lumber\n\nLumber is wood that people cut into long, flat pieces. It comes from big trees. You can see it at a store where people buy things to build houses. People use it to make walls, floors, and roofs. A common piece is called a two-by-four. It is strong and holds up a house.
Lump\n\nA lump is a small bump or a piece of something. It can be round or have funny shapes. You might find a lump in your pocket, like a ball of paper. Sometimes a lump is in food, like a bump in your mashed potatoes. It can feel hard or soft when you touch it.
Lunar\n\nLunar means something that has to do with the moon. The moon is a big, round, white light in the night sky. It changes shape over many days, from a thin smile to a full circle. When we say lunar, we talk about the moon's light or its path around the Earth. You can see the lunar light shining through your window at bedtime.
Lunar eclipse\n\nA lunar eclipse is when the moon goes into the dark shadow of the Earth. It looks big and round, but its color changes to a deep red or brown. You can see it in the night sky when the Earth moves between the sun and the moon. It is safe to look at with just your eyes, unlike a sun eclipse. A lunar eclipse can last for a few hours, and it happens about two times each year.
Lunch\n\nLunch is a meal you eat in the middle of the day. It comes after breakfast and before dinner. It can be cold, like a sandwich and an apple, or hot, like soup and rice. Many kids bring lunch to school in a box or a bag. Some people buy lunch at a shop near their work. It gives you energy to play and learn until the day is done.
Lunchbox\n\nA lunchbox is a small box that holds food. It has a lid that opens and closes to keep the food safe inside. You can find it in a school bag or a picnic basket. People use it to carry a meal to school, work, or a park. A lunchbox can be made of plastic or metal and may have a picture of a favorite animal or hero on it. Some lunchboxes have a handle so you can carry it easily.
Lunchtime\n\nLunchtime is the middle of the day when people stop to eat a meal. It happens after the morning and before the afternoon. At school, kids sit together and open lunch boxes or get a tray of food. It is a time to rest, talk with friends, and fill up your tummy. You might eat a sandwich, an apple, or some crackers. After lunchtime, you feel ready to play and learn again.
Lung\n\nA lung is a soft part inside your chest that helps you breathe. It is like two spongy bags, one on the left and one on the right. You can find it inside your body, behind your ribs. It pulls in air when you breathe in and pushes air out when you breathe out. The air has something your body needs to run and play. When you run fast, you feel your chest move because your lungs are working hard.
Lungfish\n\nA lungfish is a special kind of fish that lives in fresh water. It has both gills and lungs, so it can breathe in water and in air. It lives in small lakes and rivers that can dry up. When the water goes away, it digs into the mud and sleeps for a long time. It can stay like that for up to four years. There are only a few kinds of lungfish in the world. Some live in Africa, one lives in South America, and one lives in Australia.
Lusaka\n\nLusaka is a big city in a country called Zambia. It is the most important city there because the leaders work in it. It sits on flat, high land. Many people live in Lusaka, more than in any other city in Zambia. You can see tall buildings, busy streets, and lots of cars there.
Lute\n\nA lute is a musical instrument with strings. It has a round back made of wood strips and a flat front with a hole in the middle. You hold it by a long neck and press the strings to make different sounds. People play it by pulling the strings with their fingers. It looks a little like a guitar, but the back is round like a bowl. Long ago, people in many countries played the lute for songs and dances.
Luxembourg\n\nLuxembourg is a small country in Europe. It has no sea next to it, so it is called landlocked. The countries next to it are Belgium, Germany, and France. People there speak Luxembourgish, French, and German. It is a very old place with a big castle from long ago. Today, it is a grand duchy, which means a grand duke is the leader. Buses and trains are free for everyone to ride. Many people live close together in its towns and cities.
Lychee\n\nA lychee is a small fruit that grows in warm, wet places. It has a hard, bumpy shell on the outside that is red or pink. Inside, it is soft and white, and it tastes very sweet. You can eat it fresh or frozen, and it feels cool like ice cream. Do not eat the big brown seed in the middle, because it can make you sick.
Lynx\n\nA lynx is a wild cat. It looks a bit like a big house cat with short legs, big furry feet, and a short tail with a black tip. It has long hair on its ears that sticks up like little brushes. Its fur is brown or gray with dark spots, and it has a fluffy collar of fur around its face. A lynx lives in forests with lots of bushes and tall grass, in cold places far north or high up in the mountains. It hunts on the ground for small animals like rabbits and mice, but it can also climb trees and swim. Most of the time it stays alone, not in a big group. A baby lynx is called a kitten, and it stays with its mom for many months before going off on its own.
Lyon\n\nLyon is a big city in the country of France. It sits where two rivers meet. Many people live there, and it is one of the largest cities in the country. You can find old buildings and a big park in the middle of the city. People in Lyon like to play soccer and other sports. A long time ago, it had a different name.
Lyre\n\nA lyre is a musical instrument that makes soft, pretty sounds. It has a hollow body, two arms that curve up, and a bar across the top. Strings are stretched from the top bar down to the body. You hold it in one hand and use your other hand to pull the strings. When you pull a string, it shakes and makes a sound. A lyre looks a little like a small harp. Long, long ago, people in faraway lands played it while they sang songs or told stories. Today, you might see one in a picture book about old times.
Lyrebird\n\nA lyrebird is a bird that lives on the ground in forests far away. It has brown feathers and a long tail that can open like a fan. It lives in wet, green woods in a place called Australia. It can copy many sounds it hears, like other birds singing, a car horn, or even a camera click. The boy lyrebird sings and shows his tail to get a girl lyrebird to like him. The girl builds a messy nest low to the ground and sits on one egg for a very long time until a baby bird comes out.
Maasai\n\nThe Maasai are a group of people who live in Africa. They are very tall and slim. They wear bright red cloth and pretty beads. They live in houses made of sticks and mud. The men take care of cows, and the cows are very important to them. They drink milk from the cows every day. The Maasai live near big parks where wild animals like lions and elephants walk free.
Macadamia nut\n\nA macadamia nut is a small, round nut that grows on a tree. It has a very hard brown shell. Inside, the soft part is creamy white and tastes buttery. People eat it as a snack after it is cooked. It is also put into cookies and cakes. The tree first grew in Australia, where it is warm and wet. You should never give it to a dog because it can make a dog sick.
Macaque\n\nA macaque is a kind of monkey. It has fur, a long tail, and a face with two eyes, a nose, and a mouth. Macaques live in warm places like Africa and Asia. They stay together in big groups and have a leader. They eat fruits and berries. Sometimes a macaque takes food from another one if it is the boss. People study them to learn about how eyes work.
Macau\n\nMacau is a small city by the sea in China. It has tall buildings, bright lights, and many people living close together. A long time ago, people from a faraway country called Portugal lived there. Today, many visitors go to Macau to play games of chance in big, fancy houses called casinos. You can also see old stone streets and eat yummy egg tarts that came from the Portuguese way of cooking.
Machete\n\nA machete is a big, long knife. It has a flat, sharp metal part and a handle to hold. People use it in hot, thick forests to cut through plants and vines. It can also open a hard coconut or cut down a small tree. Some machetes have a saw edge on the back. It is bigger than a kitchen knife and very strong.
Machine\n\nA machine is a tool that helps people do work. It can be big or small. Some machines have parts that move, like a bicycle. Other machines do not move, like a phone. People use machines every day to make jobs easier.
Machu Picchu\n\nMachu Picchu is a very old city made of stone. It sits high up on a mountain in a country called Peru. Long ago, people called the Incas built it. They cut big rocks to make flat places for houses, steps, and a place to look at stars. Today, people from all over the world go to see it. They can walk up a long path or ride a train to get there. It is one of the most special old places on Earth.
Mackerel\n\nA mackerel is a kind of fish that lives in the big, wide sea. It has a long, shiny body with dark stripes on its back. Its tail looks like a deep V shape. It swims very fast in the water. Bigger fish and animals like sharks eat it. People catch it to eat, but they must cook it very soon after catching it. You might see it at a fish store or on a dinner plate.
Macroeconomics\n\nMacroeconomics is the study of how money works for a whole country. It looks at big things like how many people have jobs, how much things cost, and how much the country makes. You cannot see it in one place, but you feel it when prices go up or when grown-ups talk about jobs. It helps leaders decide how to keep the country's money safe and growing.
Mad\n\nMad is a strong feeling you get when something is not fair or when someone is mean. It can make your face feel hot and your hands want to squeeze tight. You might feel mad when a friend takes your toy without asking. When you are mad, it helps to take a deep breath or talk to a grown-up. Everyone feels mad sometimes, and it is okay.
Madagascar\n\nMadagascar is a big island in the ocean near Africa. It has many trees, beaches, and hills. Many animals live there that you cannot find anywhere else, like funny lemurs that jump in trees. People grow vanilla and coffee on the land. Some forests are cut down, so the animals lose their homes. Many people visit to see the special animals and plants.
Madam\n\nMadam is a polite word for a woman. You say it when you do not know her name, like when you meet a new teacher or a friend's mom. It is a kind way to talk to a grown-up lady. You might hear it in a store when someone says, "Excuse me, madam." It is like saying "sir" for a man.
Madrid\n\nMadrid is a big city in the country of Spain. It is the most important city in Spain, where the king and the government work. It has many old and new buildings, big parks, and art museums. People who live there are called madrileños. Many people visit Madrid to see the big palace, the pretty squares, and the famous football teams. It is a busy place with lots of shops and places to eat.
Madurai\n\nMadurai is a big city in a country called India. It has many old and pretty buildings. One famous place is a big temple with a thousand stone pillars. Many people visit the city to see the temple and join happy festivals. The city is also known for sweet-smelling white flowers called jasmine. Some people call it the city that never sleeps because the streets are busy even at night.
Magazine\n\nA magazine is a thin book with a soft cover. It has many pages with bright pictures and words. A new one comes out every week or every month. You can find it at a store or get it in the mail. It tells stories about one big idea, like animals, cars, or cooking. Some have a small toy or a sticker inside. A grown-up might read it while waiting at the doctor's office.
Magellanic Clouds\n\nThe Magellanic Clouds are two big groups of stars far away in space. They look like fuzzy, glowing patches in the night sky. You can only see them from the bottom half of the world, where it is warm. They move around our own big star group, the Milky Way. One cloud is bigger and one is smaller. They are made of gas and many, many stars. Some stars inside them are very young and bright.
Magic\n\nMagic is when something happens that seems like a trick. It can make things look like they float or change color. You might see it at a birthday party when a person pulls a coin from behind your ear. It is not real, but it is fun to watch. Sometimes people in stories use magic to fly or make things grow big.
Magic (illusion)\n\nMagic is a show where someone does tricks that look impossible. It is done by a person called a magician. The magician might pull a bunny out of a hat or make a coin vanish. You can see it at a party or on a stage. It is fun to watch because your eyes think they see something that cannot really happen.
Magma\n\nMagma is hot, melted rock deep under the ground. It is so hot that it glows red or orange. Sometimes it has tiny bits of hard rock and gas bubbles inside. When a volcano opens, it can push up and spill out. Then people call it lava. Lava cools down and turns into hard, dark stone. Deep under the ground, it can cool very slowly and make shiny rocks with spots. You can see pictures of it in books about volcanoes.
Magnet\n\nA magnet is a special piece of metal. It can pull some things close or push them away. It has two ends called a north side and a south side. When the same sides face each other, it pushes away. When different sides face each other, it pulls together. You can find a magnet on a fridge door holding up a drawing. Some magnets are in toys that stick to each other. A compass has a tiny magnet that always points north to help people find their way.
Magnetic field\n\nA magnetic field is a special space around a magnet. It is invisible, but it can push or pull on some things. You can see what it looks like by putting tiny bits of iron near a magnet. The bits line up in curved lines around it. The closer the lines are, the stronger the push or pull. A big magnet has a strong field that can pick up heavy metal things. A small magnet has a weak field. The Earth also has a big magnetic field. That is why a compass needle always points north.
Magnetism\n\nMagnetism is a hidden push or pull. It can pull some metal things close, or push other magnets away. You can see it when a magnet sticks to a fridge. It also makes a compass needle point north. Big magnets can even lift heavy cars.
Magnificent\n\nMagnificent means something is very, very beautiful or big and grand. It is a word you use when you see something that makes you say "wow!" A rainbow after the rain can be magnificent. A tall castle with shiny towers can be magnificent. When you see a huge, colorful firework in the sky, that is magnificent too.
Magnify\n\nMagnify means to make something look bigger. You can do it with a special glass called a magnifying glass. It has a round piece of glass that bends light. When you hold it over a tiny bug or a small letter, it looks much larger. A magnifying glass helps you see things that are too small for your eyes alone.
Maharashtra\n\nMaharashtra is a big place in the west part of India. It has a long coast next to a big sea. Many people live there, and they speak a language called Marathi. The biggest city is Mumbai, where you can see tall buildings and the sea. People in Maharashtra eat yummy food like a spicy potato snack called vada pav. They also celebrate a happy festival for ten days with music and dancing. You can find old caves with paintings on the walls and big strong forts on hills.
Mahatma Gandhi\n\nMahatma Gandhi was a man from India. He was thin and wore simple white clothes and round glasses. He lived a long time ago and helped people in his country. He taught that fighting with words is better than fighting with fists. Many people loved him and called him a great soul.
Mahayana\n\nMahayana is a big group of people who follow a kind of teaching. It started a long time ago in a faraway land. People in this group try to be kind and help others feel happy. They read old stories and sit quietly to think. You can see them in special houses with colorful flags and calm faces.
Mahjong\n\nMahjong is a game played with small tiles. It is usually played by four people sitting around a square table. Each person picks up tiles and tries to make sets that match. The game needs thinking and a little luck. You can also play a simpler version by yourself on a computer. In that version, you take away two matching tiles at a time until all the tiles are gone.
Mahogany\n\nMahogany is a kind of wood that comes from a tall tree. It is hard and strong, and it has a pretty red-brown color. People find the tree in warm places near the sea, like islands with sun and sand. A long time ago, people used it to build big boats because it does not break easily. Later, they made chairs, tables, and beds from it. You may see a shiny brown table at home that is made of this wood.
Mail\n\nMail is a letter or a small box that someone sends to you. It has your name and address on the front. A person brings it to your house and puts it in a box by the door. You can also send mail to a friend by putting it in a big blue box on the street. Before you send it, you stick a small paper stamp on it. That stamp is like a ticket that pays for the trip. Mail can bring a birthday card, a note from Grandma, or a toy from a store.
Mailbox\n\nA mailbox is a box where you put letters. It stands on a post near the road or hangs on a wall. It has a little door so the mail carrier can take the letters out. When you want to send a letter to a friend, you put it inside and lift the red flag up. The mail carrier comes in a truck and takes the letter away. Some mailboxes are blue and sit on the street corner for everyone to use.
Mailman\n\nA mailman is a person who brings letters and boxes to your house. He wears a blue or brown uniform and carries a big bag. You can see him walking on the street or driving a small truck. He puts mail in a box near your door. Sometimes he brings a birthday card or a fun surprise. He works even when it is rainy or cold.
Main\n\nA main is the biggest or most important part of something. It is like the big road in a town where all the cars go. You can find the main door of a house, which is the one people use the most. When you eat, the main food is the biggest part of your meal, like the sandwich, not the chips. At a playground, the main slide is the tallest one that all the kids want to try.
Maize\n\nMaize is a tall plant that grows seeds on a big stick called a cob. It has long green leaves and a thick stem. The seeds, called kernels, are small and yellow, but they can also be white, red, or blue. Farmers grow maize in big fields where the sun is warm. People cook and eat the sweet kernels right off the cob. They also pop the kernels to make popcorn, or grind them into flour for bread and flat cakes. Many animals like cows and chickens eat maize as their food too.
Make\n\nTo make is to put things together to get something new. When you use blocks to build a tall tower, you make a tower. You can make a picture with paper and crayons. A cook makes food in the kitchen. A bee makes honey from flower juice. Making is fun because you start with little parts and end with a whole thing.
Maker\n\nA maker is a person who builds or creates things with their hands. He uses tools like hammers, scissors, or glue to put pieces together. You can find a maker in a workshop, a kitchen, or even at a school art table. He might make toys, fix a broken chair, or bake a cake. When you build a tower with blocks or draw a picture, you are a maker too.
Malaria\n\nMalaria is a sickness caused by tiny bugs that get into your blood. It makes you feel very hot and cold, and your body shakes. The bug comes from a mosquito bite. The mosquito carries the bug in its spit and puts it into you when it bites. Only girl mosquitoes bite people. Malaria happens a lot in hot places far away, like Africa. Many children get sick from it. Doctors can give medicine to help, but it is hard to stop all the mosquitoes.
Malawi\n\nMalawi is a country in Africa. It is a small, warm place with a big lake called Lake Malawi. Many people there grow food like corn and beans to eat and sell. It has green hills and flat fields where animals like zebras live. Children in Malawi go to school and play games like soccer.
Malay\n\nMalay is a group of people who live in a part of the world called Southeast Asia. They have brown skin and dark hair. Many of them live in a country named Malaysia, and some live in nearby places like Indonesia and Singapore. They speak a language also called Malay. They eat yummy food like rice with fish and spicy sauce. Some Malay people wear colorful clothes for special days.
Malay Archipelago\n\nThe Malay Archipelago is a big group of islands in the warm ocean. It sits between two very big lands called Asia and Australia. It has more than 25,000 islands, which is a lot. Some of the islands are very big, and some are tiny. You can find countries like Indonesia and the Philippines there. Many islands have tall mountains that can spit out hot, red fire. The water around the islands is full of colorful fish and coral. A long time ago, a man named Wallace went there to look at all the different animals and plants.
Malay Language\n\nMalay Language is a way people talk and write. It is used in countries like Malaysia and Indonesia. Many children learn it at home and at school. It sounds soft and has words like 'selamat pagi,' which means 'good morning.' You can hear it in songs and stories from those places.
Malay Peninsula\n\nThe Malay Peninsula is a long, thin piece of land with water on three sides. It is in a part of the world called Southeast Asia. It has thick green forests and tall hills. Many people live there in towns and villages. Some grow rice and some fish in the sea. You can see it on a map as a long shape that points south.
Malaysia\n\nMalaysia is a country in a warm part of the world called Southeast Asia. It has two big pieces of land with blue sea between them. You can see a flag with stripes and a yellow star. Many different people live there, and they speak many languages. People in Malaysia eat yummy rice and noodle dishes. Some famous buildings there are very tall twin towers. It is a place with green forests and many animals.
Maldives\n\nMaldives is a country made of many small islands in the big blue ocean. It has white sand and clear water. Many fish and colorful coral live under the water. People go there to swim and play on the beach. It is very flat and warm all year. Some islands have houses and shops, but many are empty. Boats and planes take people from one island to another.
Male\n\nMale means a boy or a man. A male has a body that is different from a female body. Most boys and men have a deeper voice and hair on their face when they grow up. You can see males in your family, like your dad or your brother. In many animal families, the male is bigger or has brighter colors, like a rooster with a red comb.
Mali\n\nMali is a big country in Africa. It has no ocean next to it, so it is called landlocked. Much of the north is a hot, sandy desert called the Sahara. In the south, a long river called the Niger River gives water to plants and people. Many people in Mali grow food like cotton and fish in the river. The biggest city is Bamako, where many people live and work.
Mali Empire\n\nThe Mali Empire was a big kingdom in Africa a long time ago. It had a strong king who kept people safe. Many people there sold gold and salt. It was in a hot place with big rivers and sandy land. Long ago, children there learned stories from their parents.
Mall\n\nA mall is a big building with many small shops inside. It has a long, wide path where people walk from one shop to another. Each shop has its own door and walls. You can find a mall in most towns and cities. People go there to buy clothes, toys, and food. Many malls have a big room with tables and chairs where you can eat. Some malls also have a movie theater. Outside, there is a big parking lot for cars.
Mallard\n\nA mallard is a kind of duck. It has a big body and a wide, flat bill. The boy mallard has a shiny green head and a yellow bill. The girl mallard is brown with an orange bill. It lives near water like ponds, lakes, and rivers. You can see it in parks and even in cities. It swims on the water and looks for food with its bill.
Malta\n\nMalta is a small country made of islands in the big blue sea. It is near a bigger island called Sicily. The main city is Valletta, and many people live close together there. People in Malta speak Maltese and English. Long ago, brave knights lived on the island and built big stone walls. Today, people visit Malta to see the warm sun and old buildings.
Mama\n\nA mama is a person who takes care of a child. She is the grown-up who gave birth to you or who loves you like a mom. She might have soft hands and a warm smile. You can find her at home, cooking food or reading a book. She gives hugs, kisses, and helps you when you are sad. A mama is someone you can always count on.
Mamba\n\nA mamba is a long, thin snake that moves very fast. It has smooth scales and a narrow head. It lives in Africa, mostly up in trees, but one kind stays on the ground. It hunts during the day for birds, lizards, and small furry animals. It has strong poison in its bite that can make people very sick. When it feels scared, it may open its mouth wide and spread a small hood. It usually stays away from people if it can.
Mammal\n\nA mammal is a warm animal with fur or hair on its body. It has a backbone inside, and it breathes air with lungs. Most mammals grow inside the mom and are born alive. The mom makes milk to feed the baby. You can find mammals in many places—on land, in water, and in the air. A dog, a cat, a cow, and a whale are all mammals. Even you are a mammal!
Mammoth\n\nA mammoth is a big animal that looks like an elephant. It had long, thick hair all over its body to keep warm. It also had two very long, curved tusks that grew from its mouth. Mammoths lived a long, long time ago when much of the land was cold and icy. They are not alive today. People have found their bones and even whole bodies frozen in ice. Early people used sharp sticks to hunt them for food.
Man\n\nA man is a grown-up boy. He is taller and bigger than a child. You can see men at home, at work, or at the park. A man can be a dad, an uncle, or a grandpa. He helps take care of his family and does many jobs. Some men have short hair and some have long hair. A man's voice is often deep and low.
Manage\n\nTo manage is to take care of something and make sure it works well. When you manage your toys, you put them back in the box so the room stays tidy. A grown-up might manage a store by helping people and keeping the shelves full. It means you are the boss of that thing for a little while.
Management\n\nManagement is when someone helps a group of people work together. It is like being the leader of a team. A manager makes sure everyone knows what to do. They also check that the work gets done the right way. You can see management at a store, a school, or a big company. The boss at a pizza shop uses management to make sure the pizzas are hot and the customers are happy.
Managua\n\nManagua is a big city. It is the most important city in a country called Nicaragua. It sits next to a very big lake. Many people live there and speak Spanish. The city has had big shakes from the ground, so many old houses are gone. People use big statues and parks to tell others where to go.
Mancala\n\nMancala is a game played with a board and small seeds. It has a board with little round holes in two rows. People play it in Africa, the Middle East, and parts of Asia. You pick up seeds from one hole and drop them one by one into other holes. The goal is to collect more seeds than the other player. It is an old game that many families play together.
Manchester\n\nManchester is a big city in England. It has many houses, shops, and tall buildings made of red bricks. You can find it in the north of England, not far from hills and rivers. Many people live there and work in offices or stores. It has two famous football teams that play with a round ball. Trains and buses help people move around the city. Some parts have parks where you can run and play.
Manchuria\n\nManchuria is a big piece of land in the northeast part of China. It has wide fields, tall hills, and some deserts. The weather there is very hot in summer and very cold in winter. Long ago, a group of people called the Manchu lived there and later ruled all of China. Today, most of it is part of China, but a small piece belongs to Russia. Many people there grow food on farms.
Mandarin Chinese\n\nMandarin Chinese is a way of talking that many people use. It is the main talk of China and Taiwan. Over 800 million people speak it, more than any other talk in the world. It sounds like the talk from Beijing, the big city in China. People learn it in school so everyone can understand each other. It is written with little pictures called characters. Each picture stands for a word or an idea. You may see these pictures on signs or in books from China.
Mandarin orange\n\nA mandarin orange is a small, sweet fruit. It is round and has a bright orange skin that is easy to peel with your fingers. You can find it in stores or at markets. People eat it as a snack or put it in fruit salads. It is full of good things that help your body stay strong. Inside, it breaks into little pieces that do not make a mess. Some people also give it as a gift during a happy new year time.
Mandolin\n\nA mandolin is a small music tool that makes pretty sounds. It looks like a tiny guitar with a round wooden body and a long neck. You hold it in your hands and pluck the strings with a pick to make music. It has eight strings that sound bright and happy, like a little bell. People play it in bands with other music tools, and you might hear it in songs from faraway lands.
Mane\n\nA mane is the long hair that grows around the neck of some animals. It looks thick and fluffy, like a big scarf made of fur. You can see it on a lion, and sometimes on a horse. It makes the animal look big and strong. A lion's mane can be brown, gold, or even dark black.
Manga\n\nManga is a kind of book with lots of pictures and words. It comes from Japan. You read it from the back to the front, and the pictures and words go from right to left. The people who draw manga use special marks to show feelings, like big eyes for surprise or sweat drops for being nervous. Many manga stories are about kids with big dreams, funny animals, or brave heroes. Sometimes a manga becomes a cartoon on TV.
Mango\n\nA mango is a sweet fruit that grows on a tree. It has smooth skin that can be green, yellow, or red. Inside, it has soft, juicy orange-yellow flesh and a big flat seed in the middle. You can find mangoes in warm places like India and parts of Africa. People eat it fresh, cut into pieces, or in drinks and desserts. When it is not ripe, it tastes very sour. When it is ripe, it is soft and sweet. You might see mangoes at the store or in a fruit bowl at home.
Mangrove\n\nA mangrove is a tree that grows in warm, salty water near the sea. It has long, twisty roots that stick up out of the mud like fingers. You can find it in hot places where the water meets the land. Its roots help clean the water and give small fish and crabs a safe place to live. When its seed falls, it can float away and grow into a new tree far from the first one.
Manila\n\nManila is a big city in the Philippines. It sits next to a wide blue bay. It has many tall buildings and busy streets. People live and work there. It is the most important city in the country. Long ago, big walls and old stone forts were built there. You can still see them today. Many people visit a big green park with flowers and a tall statue.
Manioc\n\nManioc is a plant with a big white root that people eat. It has tall green stems and large leaves. It grows in hot, sunny places near the middle of the Earth. The root must be washed, peeled, and cooked before anyone can eat it. People boil it, fry it, or bake it to make soft food. They also turn it into flour for bread and cakes. Some people cook the leaves and eat them like a green vegetable. It gives the body energy and helps you grow strong.
Mansa Musa\n\nMansa Musa was a king from a land called Mali. He lived a long, long time ago. He had so much gold that he was one of the richest people ever. When he went on a big trip, he gave away gold to many people. He also built big schools and pretty buildings. People still tell stories about him today.
Mansion\n\nA mansion is a very big, fancy house. It has many rooms, like bedrooms, bathrooms, and a big kitchen. You can find it in a nice neighborhood or on a big piece of land. Rich people or important families often live in it. It might have a big garden, a pool, or even a playroom inside. Some mansions look like small castles with tall doors and shiny windows.
Manta ray\n\nA manta ray is a big, flat fish that lives in warm ocean water. It has wide, triangle-shaped fins that look like wings. It swims by moving its fins up and down, like a bird flying in water. It eats tiny sea animals by opening its big mouth while it swims. Sometimes it jumps out of the water and splashes back down. You can see it in pictures of the ocean or at a big aquarium.
Mantis\n\nA mantis is a kind of bug. It has a long body, six legs, and big eyes on a head that can turn far around. Its front legs are bent and have little spikes, so it looks like it is saying a quiet prayer. It lives in warm places with lots of plants. It sits very still and waits for a smaller bug to come close. Then it grabs the bug fast with those front legs and eats it. A mantis can be green or brown to hide on a leaf or a stick. You might see one in a garden or a park.
Mantra\n\nA mantra is a special group of words or sounds. It can be a short song or a few soft noises. People say it out loud or think it quietly inside their head. They use it when they sit still and pray or when they want to feel calm. Some people believe it brings good things like health and happiness.
Manufacture\n\nManufacture is when people make things. It happens in big buildings called factories. Workers use tools and machines to turn stuff like wood, metal, or plastic into toys, clothes, or cars. You can see things that were made this way all around you, like your chair or your cup.
Manufacturing\n\nManufacturing is making things from stuff we find in nature. It happens in big buildings called factories. Inside, machines cut, shape, and put parts together. People also help the machines work. Many things you use every day come from manufacturing, like your toy car, your cup, and your chair. Long ago, people made things slowly with their hands. Now, machines make them fast so we can have many of them.
Many\n\nMany means a big number of things. When you have many toys, your toy box is very full. You can see many stars in the sky at night. Many friends can come to your birthday party. It is the opposite of a few.
Map\n\nA map is a picture of a place. It shows where things are, like roads, rivers, and houses. You can find it on paper or on a phone. It helps people know how to go from one place to another. A map of your town might show your school and the park.
Map projection\n\nA map projection is a way to draw the big round Earth on flat paper. It is like peeling an orange and trying to make the peel lie flat. The picture always gets a little stretched or squished. Map makers pick the kind of stretching that works best for each map. Some maps show the whole world, and some show just one country.
Maple\n\nA maple is a kind of tree. It has wide leaves with pointy tips. You can find it in parks, yards, and forests. In fall, its leaves turn bright red, orange, or yellow. Some maple trees give sweet sap that people turn into syrup for pancakes. The tree also grows seeds with little wings that spin like toy helicopters when they fall.
Marathon\n\nA marathon is a very long running race. It is so long that people run for many miles without stopping. Many cities have a marathon once a year, and lots of runners come to try it. Before the race, runners practice by running a little bit more each day. The race was named after a very old story about a man who ran a long way to bring happy news. Today, people run a marathon to show they are strong and to have fun with friends.
Marble\n\nA marble is a small, round ball that children use for games. It is hard and smooth, and it can be made of glass, clay, or stone. You can find marbles in toy stores or at home in a bag or box. Children roll marbles on the floor or shoot them with their fingers to play. Some marbles are clear like glass, and some have colorful swirls inside. A big, shiny stone used for statues and buildings is also called marble, but that is a different thing.
Marble (toy)\n\nA marble is a small, round toy. It is often made of glass and feels smooth and cool in your hand. You can find it in many bright colors, and some have a little swirl inside. Kids play games with it by rolling it on the ground and trying to hit other marbles. You might see a marble in a toy store or in a jar at a friend's house.
March\n\nMarch is the third month of the year. It has 31 days. In many places, the weather starts to get warmer in March. Snow melts, and little green plants begin to grow. Sometimes the wind blows hard, and it can rain a lot. You might see early flowers like yellow daffodils. At the end of March, the days get longer and the sun stays up later.
Margarine\n\nMargarine is a soft food that looks like butter. It is made from plant oil or animal fat. People spread it on bread or use it for baking cookies and cakes. It has less fat than butter, so some people pick it instead. You can find it in a tub at the grocery store near the butter.
Margin\n\nA margin is the empty space around the words or pictures on a page. It is like a quiet, blank border. You can see it in a storybook, where the words stay in the middle and the white part near the edge is the margin. It gives your eyes a rest and makes the page look neat. When you draw a picture, leaving a margin keeps your drawing from touching the edge of the paper.
Maria\n\nMaria is a name for a girl. It is a pretty name that many people use in different countries. You might meet a Maria at school or at the park. She could be a friend who likes to play and share toys. Some songs and stories have a girl named Maria in them.
Mariana Trench\n\nThe Mariana Trench is a very deep crack in the ocean floor. It is the deepest place on Earth. It is long and narrow, like a big ditch under the sea. The water there is very heavy and pushes down hard. Only a few small boats have gone all the way down. At the bottom, it is dark and cold. Some tiny soft animals live there, like little worms and see-through bugs. One part of it is called the Challenger Deep, and that is the deepest spot of all.
Marie\n\nMarie is a name for a girl. It sounds soft and pretty. Many girls and women have this name. You might meet a Marie at school or in a storybook. Some famous people are named Marie, like a scientist who found new things. A Marie can be a friend, a mom, or a teacher.
Marie Curie\n\nMarie Curie was a scientist who lived a long time ago. She worked with special rocks that gave off a hidden light. She found two new things in those rocks, and people called them radium and polonium. Her work helped doctors see inside a person's body. She won two big prizes for her smart work.
Marine\n\nMarine means something that lives in or belongs to the sea. It is the big, salty water that covers much of the Earth. Many animals like fish, whales, and crabs are marine animals. You can see marine life at the beach or in a big tank called an aquarium. The sea is very deep and blue, and it is home to many creatures.
Mark\n\nA mark is a small spot or line you can see on something. It can be a dot, a scratch, or a little color that was not there before. You might find it on paper, on a wall, or on your skin. Sometimes you make a mark with a crayon or a pen when you draw. A smudge on a window is a mark too. If you spill juice on your shirt, it leaves a mark. You can try to clean it with water and soap.
Marker\n\nA marker is a tool for drawing and writing. It has a soft tip that holds colored ink. You can find markers at school, at home, or in an art box. People use it to make bright lines on paper, a whiteboard, or a poster. A marker comes in many colors like red, blue, green, and yellow. Some markers have a smell, like fruit or flowers. When you draw with it, the color stays on the paper and dries fast.
Market\n\nA market is a place where people buy and sell things. It can be a big building or an open space with small tents called stalls. You can find it in a town or a city. People go there to get food, toys, clothes, and many other things. A farmer may sell apples, and a baker may sell bread. Some markets are only open on certain days. When you go, you can see many colors and hear people talking. It is a busy, happy place.
Marketing\n\nMarketing is how people tell others about things to buy. It is like a big sign that says, "Look at this toy!" or a fun video that shows a new snack. It helps you know what is at the store. When a company makes a new thing, they use marketing so you will want it. You see marketing on TV, on the computer, and on big pictures outside.
Marlin\n\nA marlin is a big fish that lives in the ocean. It has a long, thin body and a very sharp nose that looks like a stick. It also has a tall fin on its back that stands up like a flag. It swims very, very fast in the water. People sometimes catch a marlin with a fishing rod, but they often let it go back into the sea. Some people cook and eat it, but that is not very common.
Marriage\n\nMarriage is when two grown-ups promise to be a family together. It often happens in a big party with flowers and a cake. The two people say they will love and help each other for their whole lives. Sometimes they wear special rings to show their promise. After marriage, they may live in the same house and have children. In some places, a man can marry more than one woman, but most of the time it is just two people. Some marriages happen in a church or temple, and some happen in a big building called a city hall. Two men or two women can also get married in many countries. A marriage is a way to show that two people care about each other very much.
Married\n\nMarried means two grown-ups love each other and promise to stay together. They have a big party with a cake and flowers. After the party, they live in the same house. They help each other every day. Sometimes they have children and become a mom and dad.
Marry\n\nMarry is when two grown-ups promise to be a family together. They stand in front of friends and say special words. After that, they live in the same house and help each other every day. Sometimes they wear pretty rings on their fingers to show the promise. You might see a marry party with flowers, cake, and dancing.
Mars\n\nMars is a planet that goes around the Sun. It is the fourth one from the Sun. It looks red in the night sky. It is made of rocks and red dust. The red color comes from rusty bits in the ground. It has two tiny moons that spin around it. It has the biggest mountain of all the planets. The mountain is much taller than any mountain on Earth. It also has a very long, deep crack in the ground, like a giant valley. It is very cold there because it is far from the Sun. The air is thin and not good for people to breathe. It has white caps of ice at the top and bottom. Long ago, water may have flowed on the ground. People send robots to look at it and take pictures. Some day, people might go there to visit.
Mars (mythology)\n\nMars is a strong god from old Roman stories. He is the god of war, which means fighting and battles. People long ago thought he liked loud fights and red blood. They named a big red star in the sky after him — the planet Mars. They also named the month of March after him. In some stories, he is the dad of two boys who built a great city.
Marseille\n\nMarseille is a big city in the south of France. It sits next to the blue sea and has a very large port where big boats come and go. It is one of the oldest cities in France, started by people who came on boats long ago. Many people live there, and the sun shines hot in the summer. You can see boats, old stone houses, and busy streets full of life.
Marsh\n\nA marsh is a wet, soft piece of land. It has tall grass and other green plants that grow in shallow water. You can find it near a lake, a river, or the ocean. The water in it can be fresh like a pond or salty like the sea. Many animals live there — frogs hop in the mud, birds build nests in the tall grass, and fish swim in the water. A marsh is not the same as a swamp, because a swamp has big trees and deeper water.
Marshall Islands\n\nThe Marshall Islands is a country made of many small islands. It sits in the big blue ocean far away. Many people live on these islands, and some have moved to a place called Arkansas in America. They love to dance, sing, and eat together with family. Once a year, they have a big party to see old friends and share their island songs and food.
Marsupial\n\nA marsupial is a kind of animal that has a pouch. It is a mammal, so it has warm blood and fur. It lives mostly in Australia and nearby islands, but one kind lives in America. It carries its tiny baby in the pouch, where the baby drinks milk and grows. A kangaroo is a marsupial you might see in a zoo or a book.
Marten\n\nA marten is a small wild animal with soft brown fur. It has a long body, short legs, a bushy tail, and a pointy face. It lives in forests in cold places like Canada and Europe. It climbs trees very well because its claws can go in and out like a cat's claws. It comes out at night to find food. It eats mice, squirrels, bugs, and sometimes berries. A baby marten is called a kit.
Martial\n\nMartial is a word that means about fighting or war. It is not a thing you can touch. You might hear it in a story about brave fighters. Some people learn martial arts to move their body in strong, fast ways. It is not for real fighting but for practice and fun.
Martial arts\n\nMartial arts are ways of moving your body to stay safe and strong. It has kicks, punches, and throws. You can find it in a gym or a big room with soft mats. People use it to protect themselves and to get fit. Karate is one kind you may see in a movie or a class.
Martin\n\nMartin is a name for a boy or a man. It is a short name that is easy to say. You might meet a Martin at school, at the park, or in a storybook. A Martin can be tall or short, with any color hair. He likes to play and laugh, just like you. Sometimes a Martin has a pet or a favorite toy. If you know a Martin, you can call him by his name when you want to play.
Martin Luther\n\nMartin Luther was a man who lived a long time ago. He was a teacher and a leader in a church. He saw some things in the church that he thought were not fair. He wrote down his ideas and shared them with many people. This started a big change in how some people thought about God. He helped make a new kind of church that many people still go to today.
Mary\n\nMary is a name for a girl. It is a short name with four letters. Many girls and women have this name. You might know a Mary at school or in your family. A Mary can be a friend, a sister, or a mom.
Mary Wollstonecraft\n\nMary Wollstonecraft was a woman who lived a long time ago. She wrote a book that said girls and boys should learn the same things. She believed women are just as smart as men. Many people read her words and started to think in new ways.
Mary, mother of Jesus\n\nMary is the mother of Jesus. She was a kind young woman who lived a long time ago. An angel came to her and said she would have a special baby. She gave birth to Jesus in a place where animals sleep, because there was no room anywhere else. She took care of Jesus when he was little. Many people love Mary and remember her in stories and songs.
Mascot\n\nA mascot is a person, animal, or thing that stands for a group. It is often a fun character that brings good luck. You can see it at a school, a sports game, or on a box of food. It dances, waves, and makes people smile. Some mascots are big fluffy animals, and some are small like a lizard. A mascot helps everyone feel like one big team.
Mask\n\nA mask is something you wear on your face. It can cover all of your face or just part of it, like your nose and mouth. You might see a mask at a doctor's office or on a woodworker to keep tiny bits out of the nose. Some masks are for fun, like at a party, and some keep you safe from bad air. A hockey player wears a mask to stop a fast puck from hurting the face. Long ago, people used masks in plays and dances to look like spirits.
Masonry\n\nMasonry is a way of building things with small blocks. It uses blocks like bricks or stones and a sticky paste called mortar to hold them together. You can see it in walls of houses, schools, and big old buildings. A brick wall is one kind of masonry. It is very strong and can last for a long, long time.
Mass\n\nMass is how much stuff is in a thing. A big rock has more mass than a small rock. It is not the same as weight. Weight changes if you go to the moon, but mass stays the same. You can feel mass when you push a toy car. A heavy car is harder to push than a light one. That is because it has more mass. Everything you can touch has mass. Even a tiny ant has a little bit of mass.
Mass media\n\nMass media is a way to send news and stories to many people at once. It includes things like TV, radio, books, and the internet. You can see it on a screen at home or hear it in the car. It tells you what is happening far away or shows you fun shows. For example, when you watch cartoons on TV, that is mass media.
Mass production\n\nMass production is making many things that are all the same. It happens in a big building called a factory. Workers and machines each do one small job over and over. This way, they can make lots of things very fast. For example, a toy car you get at the store was made this way. Many toy cars come out looking just alike.
Mastiff\n\nA Mastiff is a very big kind of dog. It has a wide body, strong legs, and a big head with soft wrinkles on its face. It can be as heavy as a grown-up person. Many people keep it at home to be a friend and to watch over the family. It is calm and gentle with people it knows. It can be a good guard dog and will stand between its family and someone who seems scary. A Mastiff learns slowly, so it needs kind and patient teaching when it is a puppy.
Mat\n\nA mat is a flat piece of soft or rough stuff. It can be made of cloth, rubber, or straw. You find it on the floor in front of a door. People wipe their shoes on it so dirt stays outside. Some mats are in the bathroom to step on after a bath. A mat can also be a small rug where a pet sleeps.
Match\n\nA match is a small stick that makes fire. It has a colored tip on one end. You find it in a small box in the kitchen or a drawer. When you rub the tip on a rough side, it makes a tiny flame. People use it to light candles or a campfire. You must be very careful because fire is hot and can hurt.
Mate\n\nMate is a name for a boy. He is a person, like a friend or a classmate. You might meet a boy named Mate at school or at the park. He can play games, share toys, and laugh with you. Some boys named Mate have dark hair, and some have light hair. He is just like any other boy you know.
Material\n\nMaterial is what something is made of. It can be soft like a blanket or hard like a rock. You can see it all around you every day. Your shirt is made of a material called cloth. Your cup might be made of a material called plastic. A spoon can be made of a material called metal. When you touch something, you feel its material.
Math\n\nMath is about numbers, shapes, and patterns. It helps you count how many toys you have. You use it when you share cookies with a friend. You can see math in a clock, a calendar, or when you measure how tall you are. It is like a game of finding answers.
Mathematical\n\nMathematical is a word that means about numbers and shapes. It is used when we count things, like how many cookies are on a plate. You see it when you learn to add or take away numbers in school. It helps us know how big or small something is, like a tall tower or a short line. When you play with blocks and put them in a row, you are doing something mathematical.
Mathematical Proof\n\nA mathematical proof is a way to show that something is always true. It is like a chain of small, clear steps. Each step follows from the one before it, like building with blocks. You can find proofs in math books and on chalkboards at school. People use proofs to be sure that a math idea works every time. For example, you can prove that adding two even numbers always gives an even number.
Mathematics\n\nMathematics is about numbers, shapes, and patterns. It helps us count things, like how many cookies are on a plate. You use it when you share toys with a friend, so each of you gets the same amount. It also helps us see shapes, like circles and squares, all around us. People use mathematics to build houses, make games, and even bake cakes. When you add or take away, you are doing mathematics.
Matter\n\nMatter is everything around you that takes up space. It is the stuff that makes up your toys, your bed, and even you. You can see it, touch it, or feel it. Matter can be hard like a rock, wet like water, or light like air. When you hold a cup of juice, you are holding matter.
Mauna Loa\n\nMauna Loa is a big mountain that can spit out hot, melted rock. It is on an island called Hawaii. From the bottom of the ocean, it is taller than any other mountain on Earth. The top is often covered in snow, but inside it is very hot. Sometimes red, runny rock comes out of the top and slides down the sides. This happened not too long ago, in 2022. The name means "long mountain" in the Hawaiian language.
Mauritania\n\nMauritania is a big country in Africa. It sits next to the big blue ocean. The land is mostly flat and sandy. Many people there grow food and take care of animals like cows and goats. They also dig up a hard rock called iron from the ground. The iron is sent to other places to make things like cars and bridges. People in Mauritania speak different languages, but many speak Arabic. A long time ago, France ruled the country, so some people also speak French.
Mauritius\n\nMauritius is a small island country in the big, warm Indian Ocean. It has sandy beaches, blue water, and green hills. The capital city is Port Louis. Long ago, people from faraway lands came to live there. Today, many people visit it to swim and play in the sun. A funny bird called the dodo once lived only on this island, but it is gone now. The flag has four bright stripes: red, blue, yellow, and green.
Max\n\nMax means the biggest or the most. If you have three cookies and your friend has one, you have the max number of cookies. It is the top of something, like the tallest tower in a block stack. When a cup is full to the very top, it is at its max. You might hear a grown-up say "max" when they mean "no more can fit."
May\n\nMay is a month in the middle of spring. It has 31 days and comes after April. The weather gets warm, and many flowers open up. People may have a day off for a holiday called Mother's Day. You can see green leaves on trees and hear birds sing.
Maya\n\nMaya is a name for a girl. She is a person, just like you. You might meet a Maya at school or at the park. She could have a smile and like to play. Sometimes Maya is a name in a storybook too.
Maya Civilization\n\nThe Maya were people who lived a long, long time ago. They built big stone houses and tall towers in the jungle. They knew a lot about stars and made a special calendar. They grew corn and made yummy food from it. You can still see their old stone buildings in places like Mexico today.
Maya people\n\nThe Maya people are a group of people who live in warm places. They live in parts of Mexico and nearby lands. A long time ago, they built big stone houses and tall steps called pyramids. Today, many Maya people still speak their own special words and make bright, colorful clothes. They grow food like corn and beans on the land.
Mayan civilization\n\nThe Mayan civilization was a group of people who lived a long, long time ago. They built big stone cities with tall pyramids and wide steps. You can still see some of these old buildings in places like Mexico and Guatemala. They grew food like corn, beans, and squash to eat. They also made beautiful art and wrote stories using pictures. Today, some people still speak Mayan languages and keep old traditions.
Maybe\n\nMaybe means you are not sure. It is a word you say when something could happen or could not happen. You use it when you do not know the answer yet. For example, if someone asks if it will rain, you can say maybe because the sky looks gray but you are not sure.
Mayonnaise\n\nMayonnaise is a thick, creamy white sauce. It is made by mixing oil, egg yolk, and a little lemon juice or vinegar. People put it on sandwiches, salads, and fries to make them taste rich and tangy. You can find it in a jar at the store or in a squeeze bottle at home.
Mayor\n\nA mayor is the leader of a town or city. He or she works in a big building called city hall. People in the town choose the mayor by voting. The mayor helps make rules to keep the town safe and clean. He or she also talks to people about what the town needs, like new parks or fixing roads. You might see the mayor at a parade or a town party.
Maze\n\nA maze is a puzzle made of many paths. It has walls and turns that make it tricky to find the way. You can see a maze on paper, where you draw a line with your finger or a pencil. Some mazes are big enough to walk inside, like in a park or a garden. The goal is to find the way from the start to the end. It is fun to try and not get lost.
Me\n\nMe is a word you use to talk about yourself. It is the person you see in the mirror every day. You have a body with arms, legs, a head, and a belly. You can run, jump, draw, and sing. You live with your family in a house or a flat. You eat food, sleep at night, and play with toys. You have a name that your mom and dad gave you. You are special and there is no one else just like you.
Meadow\n\nA meadow is a big open field full of grass and flowers. It has no big trees, just soft green plants. You can find it in the countryside, where the land is flat and sunny. Cows, sheep, and goats like to eat the grass there. In spring and summer, it is covered with bright yellow, white, and purple flowers. Butterflies and bees fly from flower to flower. A meadow is a nice place to run and play.
Meal\n\nA meal is the food you eat at one time. It has different parts like bread, fruit, and sometimes meat. People eat three meals a day. The morning meal is called breakfast. It often has cereal, fruit, and milk. The noon meal is lunch. It can be a sandwich, soup, or fruit. The evening meal is dinner. It may have meat, rice, and a sweet treat after. You sit at a table with your family to eat a meal.
Mean\n\nMean is when someone is not nice. It is when a person says or does things that hurt others. You might see it at the playground when a child pushes or calls names. It makes people feel sad or angry. Being kind is the opposite of mean.
Meander\n\nA meander is a big bend in a river. It looks like a snake moving across the ground. You can see it when a river flows over flat land. The water moves fast on the outside of the bend and slow on the inside. Over time, the bend gets bigger and bigger. Sometimes two bends touch and make a small round lake.
Meaning\n\nMeaning is what something tells you. It is the idea inside a word, a picture, or a face. When you hear a word like "apple," the meaning is the round red fruit you can eat. When a friend smiles, the meaning is that they are happy. Even a dog wagging its tail has meaning—it means the dog is glad to see you. Meaning helps people and animals understand each other every day.
Measles\n\nMeasles is a sickness caused by a tiny germ. It makes a person feel hot, cough, and have red, itchy eyes. A bumpy red rash shows up all over the body. It spreads very fast when a sick person coughs or sneezes near you. Doctors give a special shot to keep children from getting it. Most people get better with rest and medicine.
Measure\n\nTo measure is to find out how big, how long, or how heavy something is. You can use a ruler to see how long a pencil is. You can use a cup to see how much water you have. You can step on a scale to see how heavy you are. Measuring helps you know more about things.
Measurement\n\nMeasurement is finding out how big, how long, or how heavy something is. It uses numbers to tell us the size. We can measure how tall you are with a ruler. We can measure how much water is in a cup. We use words like inches, feet, or cups to say the number. When you step on a scale, it measures your weight.
Meat\n\nMeat is a food that comes from animals. It is the soft part of an animal that people cook and eat. You can find meat at the store or in the fridge at home. People cook it in a pan, on a grill, or in the oven to make it safe and yummy. Some kinds of meat are chicken, beef from cows, and pork from pigs. Many kids eat meat in burgers, nuggets, or hot dogs. It helps your body grow strong.
Mecca\n\nMecca is a city in a hot, sandy country far away. It is a very special place for many people who follow a faith called Islam. In the city, there is a big stone building shaped like a box. People turn toward it when they pray. Every year, many grown-ups travel to Mecca for a big trip called Hajj. They walk together, pray, and feel close to God. Only people who follow Islam can go inside the city.
Mechanic\n\nA mechanic is a person who fixes cars and trucks. He works in a garage with big tools. He looks under the hood to find what is broken. He uses wrenches and lifts to change parts. When your family car makes a funny noise, a mechanic makes it quiet again.
Mechanical\n\nMechanical means something that has moving parts. It is like a toy car with wheels that turn, or a clock with hands that go around. You find mechanical things in many places, like a bike with a chain or a music box that plays a tune. People use mechanical tools to fix things or build new things. A wind-up toy is a good example—you turn a key and it walks or spins.
Mechanical engineering\n\nMechanical engineering is a job where people make and fix machines. It uses ideas about how things move and how strong they are. People who do this job build big things like cars and planes. They also build tiny parts inside toys and phones. You can see their work in a bike, a fan, or a door that opens and closes.
Mechanics\n\nMechanics is a part of science that looks at how things move. It studies why a ball rolls, why a swing goes back and forth, and why a toy car stops. A long time ago, smart people like Newton thought about these rules. He said that a thing stays still until something pushes or pulls it. You can see mechanics when you kick a ball or pull a wagon. It is all around us every day.
Medal\n\nA medal is a small, flat piece of metal. It is often round and hangs from a ribbon. People give it as a prize for doing something very well, like running fast or being brave. You might see one on a soldier's jacket or around the neck of a winner at a race. It can be gold, silver, or bronze in color.
Media\n\nMedia is a way to share stories, pictures, and sounds with many people. It can be a book with pages you turn, a TV show you watch, or a song you hear on the radio. You find it at home, in the car, or at school. It tells you news, makes you laugh, or teaches you new things. A cartoon on a tablet is one kind of media.
Medical\n\nMedical means about health and the body. It is the way doctors and nurses help people feel better when they are sick. You see medical things at a doctor's office, like a stethoscope to listen to your heart. Bandages and medicine are medical things too. When you have a check-up, the doctor uses medical tools to make sure you are growing strong.
Medical diagnosis\n\nA medical diagnosis is when a doctor finds out why a person feels sick. The doctor looks at the body, asks questions, and sometimes does small tests. Tests can be taking a little blood or taking a picture of the inside of the body with a big camera. After the doctor knows what is wrong, they can tell the person how to get better. When you go to the doctor with a tummy ache, the doctor feels your tummy and asks what you ate. That is part of making a medical diagnosis.
Medical Imaging\n\nMedical imaging is a way to take pictures inside your body. It uses big machines that look like a tunnel or a camera. You find these machines in a hospital or a doctor's office. Doctors use it to see your bones, your heart, or your tummy without any owies. For example, when you break your arm, the doctor takes a picture to see the crack.
Medication\n\nMedication is something you take to feel better when you are sick. It can be a pill, a liquid, or a shot. A doctor or a grown-up gives it to you. It helps stop pain, bring down a fever, or fight germs. You might see it at home in a cabinet or at the drug store. You should only take it when a grown-up says it is okay.
Medicine\n\nMedicine is the way doctors help people feel better. It is a job where people learn about the body and how to fix it when it is sick. You find medicine in a doctor's office or a hospital. A doctor uses medicine to check your heart, give you a shot, or put a bandage on a cut. When you have a cold, the doctor might give you a special drink to help you get well.
Medieval music\n\nMedieval music is very old music from a long, long time ago. It was played by people called minstrels who sang songs and used simple instruments. They traveled to big houses and towns to play for people. Some music was for church, where only singing was allowed at first. A famous song from that time is "Sumer is icumen in," which is about summer coming. It was often played on instruments like the harp, which is a big wooden frame with strings, or the recorder, a small pipe you blow into.
Meditation\n\nMeditation is a quiet time when you sit still and calm your mind. It is like giving your brain a soft, gentle rest. You can do it by closing your eyes and breathing slowly. Many people do it in the morning or before bed. It helps you feel peaceful and happy inside.
Mediterranean\n\nThe Mediterranean is a big, warm sea. It is blue and shiny, with water that tastes salty. You can find it between Europe and Africa. Many people swim and play on its sandy beaches. Big boats called ships carry things across it. Fish and dolphins live in its water. On a map, it looks like a big blue puddle.
Mediterranean Sea\n\nThe Mediterranean Sea is a big body of water. It sits between Europe, Africa, and Asia. It is almost all the way closed in by land. A thin strip of water called the Strait of Gibraltar joins it to the big ocean. The water is very blue and a little bit salty. Long ago, people used it to sail boats and trade things like food and cloth. Today, big ships still cross it to carry goods. Many fish live in it, and people catch them to eat.
Medium\n\nA medium is something in the middle. It is not too big and not too small. You can find a medium size when you pick a shirt or a cup. It is the one that is just right, not the biggest and not the smallest. When you draw with crayons, a medium crayon is not too long and not too short.
Meet\n\nA meet is when people come together in one place. It can be at a park, a school, or a big room. People talk, play, or share things at a meet. Sometimes a meet is for a race, like a swim meet where kids race in the water. You might go to a meet with your family to see friends.
Meeting\n\nA meeting is when two or more people come together to talk. It can happen in a room, at a big table, or even on a computer screen. People use it to share ideas, make plans, or solve a problem. At school, your teacher might have a meeting with other teachers. At home, your family might have a meeting to decide what game to play.
Megabat\n\nA megabat is a big bat that eats fruit. It has soft fur, big eyes, and wide wings. It lives in warm forests in Africa, Asia, and Australia. During the day, it hangs upside down in big groups called camps. At night, it flies out to find fruit and flower juice. It helps plants grow by moving seeds and pollen. Some megabats can carry germs that make people sick, but this is very rare.
Mekong River\n\nThe Mekong River is a very long river in a warm part of the world. It starts high up in the mountains and flows down through many countries. It is home to many fish, dolphins, and other animals. People use it to catch food and to travel by boat. Some big walls called dams are built on it to make power.
Melbourne\n\nMelbourne is a big city in Australia. It has many houses, tall buildings, and wide streets. A river called the Yarra runs through the middle of it. You can see long trains on tracks called trams that move people around. It has big green parks where you can run and play. Some parts of it are next to the beach with sand and water. People from many different places live there and bring their own food and music. It is a busy place full of shops, museums, and fun things to see.
Melody\n\nA melody is a line of music notes that you hear one after another. It is like a song you can hum or sing. It goes up high and down low, like steps on a hill. You can find a melody in a lullaby your mom sings, or in a happy tune on the radio. When you whistle a little song, you are making a melody. It is the part of music that you remember and want to sing again.
Melon\n\nA melon is a big, round fruit that grows on a vine. It has a hard outside skin and soft, sweet inside part that you can eat. The inside is often orange, green, or yellow and very juicy. You can find it in a garden or at a food store. People cut it open and eat the inside raw, sometimes in small cubes or balls. A watermelon is one kind of melon that is very big and has red inside with black seeds.
Melt\n\nMelt means something hard or cold turns into a soft, warm liquid. It happens when it gets very hot. You can see it when an ice cube sits in the sun and turns into water. Snow melts when spring comes and the air feels warm. A crayon left on a hot sidewalk can melt into a waxy puddle. Even butter melts in a warm pan when you cook.
Melting\n\nMelting is when a hard thing turns into a runny liquid. It happens when the thing gets very warm. Think of an ice cube on a hot day. The ice gets warm and turns into water. That is melting. You can see it in the kitchen too. Butter on warm toast melts and gets soft. Chocolate in your hand melts and feels sticky. Melting is the opposite of freezing, when a liquid turns back into a hard solid.
Member\n\nA member is a person who belongs to a group. It can be a club, a team, or a family. When you join a group, you become one of its members. Each member helps the group in some way. For example, in a soccer team, every player is a member. In a family, you are a member too.
Memory\n\nMemory is how your brain keeps things you saw or heard. It lets you remember your friend's name or the way to school. Some memories stay for a very short time, like a phone number you just heard. Other memories stay for a long time, like your birthday party last year. It helps you learn new songs and stories. When you sleep, your brain sorts memories so you can find them later.
Memory card\n\nA memory card is a tiny flat thing that saves pictures, songs, and games. It has no moving parts inside, so it does not break easily. You put it into a camera, a phone, or a game machine to keep your stuff safe. It can hold a little or a lot, depending on its size. The most common kind is called an SD card, and a very small one is called a microSD card. You might see one when Mom or Dad takes photos with a camera.
Mental\n\nMental is about what happens inside your head. It is how you think, feel, and remember things. When you are happy or sad, that is a mental feeling. When you learn a new song or story, your mental part is working. It helps you solve puzzles and dream at night. Everyone has a mental side, just like they have a body.
Mental Disorder\n\nA mental disorder is when a person's feelings or thoughts make it hard to do everyday things. It is not something you can see like a broken arm. It can make a person feel very sad, very worried, or think things that are not real. A doctor can help by talking and sometimes giving medicine. Just like a cold can get better, a mental disorder can get better with help.
Mental Health\n\nMental health is how you feel inside your head and heart. It is about being happy, sad, calm, or worried. When you have good mental health, you can play, learn, and make friends. Sometimes you might feel scared or angry, and that is okay. Talking to a grown-up you trust can help you feel better. Just like your body needs food and sleep, your feelings need care too.
Mentha\n\nMentha is a plant with soft green leaves. It has a strong, cool smell that many people like. You can find it growing in gardens or in pots on a windowsill. People use its leaves to add a fresh taste to food and drinks. For example, it can go in ice cream, tea, or candy. Some people also use it to help a sore tummy, but for a few people it can make a tummy ache worse.
Menu\n\nA menu is a list of food you can pick. It tells you what you can eat at a place like a restaurant. You look at it to choose your meal. It might have pictures of the food. Sometimes it is a big board on the wall, and sometimes it is a paper you hold. A grown-up reads it and tells the waiter what you want.
Meow\n\nA meow is a sound that a cat makes. It is a soft, high noise that comes from its mouth. You hear it when a cat wants food, wants to play, or says hello. A kitten meows to call its mom. Some cats meow a lot, and some are very quiet. If you have a cat at home, you know this sound well.
Mercury\n\nMercury is a small, rocky planet. It is the closest planet to the sun. It looks gray and has many round holes called craters. You can see it in the sky, but it is very hard to spot because it is near the bright sun. It moves around the sun very fast. A year on Mercury is only 88 days long.
Mercury (planet)\n\nMercury is a small planet that goes around the Sun. It is the closest planet to the Sun. It looks a lot like our Moon, with many round holes called craters and flat, smooth places. It is very hot in the day and very cold at night. You can sometimes see it in the sky just before the Sun comes up or just after it goes down. It has no moon of its own.
Mercy\n\nMercy is when someone is kind to a person who made a mistake. It means you do not punish them, even if you could. You might see it when a friend breaks your toy and you say, "It is okay, I still like you." It feels warm, like a hug after a sad moment. A teacher shows mercy by giving a second chance. A mom shows mercy by forgiving a spilled cup of milk.
Merge\n\nMerge is when two things come together to make one thing. It is like when you pour red water and blue water into one cup, and they mix to make purple water. On a road, two lines of cars can merge into one line when the road gets smaller. In a game, you can merge two small blocks to make one big block. It means joining things so they are no longer apart.
Mermaid\n\nA mermaid is a made-up creature from old stories. It has the top part of a person and the bottom part of a fish. In tales, it lives in the sea and sometimes sits on big rocks near the water. People say it sings songs that can trick sailors. You might see a mermaid in a cartoon or a book, like the one with long hair and a shiny tail.
Merry\n\nMerry means feeling very happy and full of fun. It is a word people use when they laugh, smile, and have a good time. You might feel merry at a birthday party with cake and games. People also say "Merry Christmas!" to wish others a happy holiday. When you are merry, your heart feels light and you want to sing or dance.
Mesa\n\nA mesa is a big hill with a flat top and steep sides. It looks like a giant table made of rock. You can find it in dry, open places like deserts. The flat top is hard rock that protects the softer rock below. Wind and rain wear away the sides slowly, leaving the tall shape. Some mesas are so big that people can walk on top and see far away.
Mesh\n\nA mesh is a net made of thin lines that cross each other. It has many small holes between the lines. You can find it on a window screen to keep bugs out. People also use it in a kitchen strainer to let water out but keep food in. A bag for carrying fruit can be made of mesh too.
Mesoamerica\n\nMesoamerica is a big piece of land in the middle part of the world. It starts in Mexico and goes down near a country called Costa Rica. Long ago, many native people lived there before new people came from far away. They grew a special tree that gives us chocolate. Today, you can still see old stone buildings they made.
Mesopotamia\n\nMesopotamia is a very old place between two big rivers. It is a land where people first built cities long, long ago. The two rivers are called the Tigris and the Euphrates. People used the water from the rivers to help plants grow. They also made the first wheel there. It was first used to shape clay pots, and later to move things. One famous city there was called Babylon. People wrote with little marks on clay, which was the first writing. Mesopotamia is now part of the country called Iraq.
Mesozoic\n\nThe Mesozoic is a very, very long time ago when dinosaurs lived on Earth. It was warm, with no ice at the north and south ends of the world. Big forests of tall trees and ferns grew everywhere. Dinosaurs walked on land, and big swimming reptiles lived in the sea. Small furry animals that came out at night hid in the woods. It ended when a big rock from space hit Earth and most dinosaurs went away.
Mess\n\nA mess is when things are not in their place. It looks like toys on the floor, clothes on the chair, or food bits on the table. You can find a mess in a bedroom, a playroom, or a kitchen after a big meal. When you clean up, you put everything back where it belongs. A tidy room is the opposite of a mess.
Message\n\nA message is words you send to someone. It can be a note on paper, a voice you leave on a phone, or words you type on a screen. You find it in a letter, a text, or a chat. It tells the other person what you think or feel. For example, when you draw a heart for Mom, that is a message.
Messiah\n\nMessiah is a special person who comes to save the world. In old stories, God promised to send this person to help people. Some people believe the Messiah is a king, a teacher, or a healer. Many people think Jesus is the Messiah. They say he came to fix what was wrong and will come back one day. Other people wait for a different Messiah to come in the future.
Messy\n\nMessy means things are not in their place. It looks like toys on the floor, clothes on the chair, and crumbs on the table. You can find a messy room after playtime or a messy face after eating. When something is messy, you can clean it up by putting things away. A child's bedroom is often messy before bedtime.
Metabolism\n\nMetabolism is how your body turns food into energy. It is like a tiny engine inside you that never stops. When you eat an apple, it breaks the apple down into tiny pieces your body can use. It helps you run, jump, think, and grow. Even when you sleep, it keeps working to fix your body and keep you warm.
Metal\n\nMetal is a kind of hard, shiny stuff that comes from the ground. It feels heavy and cold when you touch it. You can find it in many places, like in pots and pans in the kitchen, in coins, and in big bridges. People use it to make things that need to be strong, like cars, bikes, and tools. A fork or a spoon is a good example of something made from metal.
Metallurgy\n\nMetallurgy is the way people work with metal. It is about taking metal from the ground and making it into things we use. People heat metal until it is very hot and soft, then they shape it into tools, cars, or pots. You can see metal in your kitchen, like a spoon or a fork. A blacksmith is a person who does metallurgy with a big hammer and fire.
Metalworking\n\nMetalworking is how people shape metal into things. It is like playing with clay, but with hard, shiny stuff. People use tools to cut, bend, or melt metal. They make things like pots, cars, and bridges. A blacksmith is a person who does metalworking with a big hammer and fire. You can see metal things all around you, like a spoon or a bike.
Metamorphic rock\n\nA metamorphic rock is a rock that has changed deep inside the Earth. It starts as one kind of rock, then gets very hot and squeezed hard. This makes it turn into a new, different rock. You can find it under big mountains or near hot melted rock. It often has shiny specks or wavy lines inside. Some kinds are used to make floors or pretty statues.
Metamorphosis\n\nMetamorphosis is a big change in the body of an animal as it grows up. It happens to some bugs and frogs. A young animal looks very different from the grown-up one. For example, a caterpillar is long and crawly. It later turns into a butterfly with wings. A tadpole lives in water and has a tail. It later turns into a frog that hops on land. This change takes time and helps the animal live in a new way.
Meteor\n\nA meteor is a bright light in the night sky. It looks like a fast-moving star that falls down. You see it when a small rock from space flies into the air around Earth. The rock gets very hot and glows. Most of the time, it burns up before it hits the ground. Sometimes a piece lands on Earth. That piece is called a meteorite. It can be a big rock or a tiny speck of dust. People call a meteor a shooting star because it zips across the sky so quickly.
Meteor shower\n\nA meteor shower is when many shooting stars fly across the night sky. It looks like bright lines of light that move fast and then go away. You can see it outside on a dark night, far from city lights. It happens when tiny bits of rock and dust from space burn up high above us. One famous meteor shower happens every year in August. People lie on blankets and watch the sky to see the pretty lights.
Meteorology\n\nMeteorology is the study of weather. It looks at the air around our Earth. People who do this work are called weather helpers. They watch the wind, how hot or cold it is, and how wet the air feels. They use big computers to guess if it will rain or be sunny tomorrow. You see their work when you watch the weather on TV. They help us know if we need a coat or an umbrella.
Meter\n\nA meter is a way to measure how long something is. It is a little longer than a big step you take. You can find a meter stick in a classroom. People use it to see how tall a door is or how wide a room is. A baseball bat is almost one meter long.
Method\n\nA method is a way of doing something. It is like a plan or a list of steps you follow. When you make a sandwich, you have a method: first bread, then cheese, then more bread. At school, your teacher shows you a method to write your letters. A method helps you do things the same good way every time.
Metre\n\nA metre is a way to measure how long something is. It is a little longer than a big step. You can use a ruler or a tape to see it. People all over the world use it to measure things like a table, a door, or a room. A metre is about as tall as a small child.
Metric system\n\nThe metric system is a way to measure things. It uses meters for how long, grams for how heavy, and liters for how much space. You can find it on rulers, scales, and measuring cups. People use it to know how tall you are, how much milk to pour, or how far away the park is. For example, a big bottle of soda is two liters.
Metro\n\nA metro is a fast train that runs under a big city. It has many long cars joined together, and it stops at stations with bright lights. People ride it to go to work, to school, or to the park. You can find it in cities like New York or London. It moves through tunnels under the ground, so it does not get stuck in traffic.
Metropolis\n\nA metropolis is a very, very big city. It has so many people that you cannot count them all. Inside it, there are tall buildings, busy streets, and many smaller towns around it. People live, work, and play there. You can find big parks, shops, and trains that go under the ground. New York and London are two big cities like this. A metropolis never sleeps because lights stay on all night.
Metropolitan area\n\nA metropolitan area is a big city and all the smaller towns around it. It has many houses, stores, and roads that all connect together. You can find it on a map where the city spreads out very far. People live and work in different parts of it, and they often drive or take a train to go from one part to another. The biggest one in the world is Tokyo, where many millions of people live.
Metropolitan Museum of Art\n\nThe Metropolitan Museum of Art is a big building full of art. It is in New York City, next to a big park. Inside, you can see many old and new things like paintings, statues, and even old clothes. People come from all over to look at the art. It is so big that you cannot see everything in one day.
Mew\n\nA mew is a tiny, soft sound. It is the little cry a baby cat makes. You can hear it when a kitten is hungry or wants its mom. It sounds like a high, quiet 'mew'. If you have a small cat at home, you might hear it in the morning when it wants food.
Mexican food\n\nMexican food is the food people eat in the country of Mexico. It uses corn, beans, hot peppers, and fruits. A taco is a flat bread folded around meat or beans. It is easy to hold and eat with your hands. Guacamole is a soft green dip made from a fruit called avocado. People dip chips in it. Enchiladas are rolled-up breads with a spicy red sauce on top. Many kids like Mexican food because it is fun to eat and full of color.
Mexico\n\nMexico is a country. It is in the south part of North America. It looks like a triangle on a map. It has big mountains, hot deserts, and green forests. Many people live there, and they speak Spanish. They eat yummy food like tacos and corn. Some kids play with a piñata at parties. Mexico is next to the United States.
Mexico City\n\nMexico City is a very big city. It is the biggest city in the country of Mexico. It sits in a flat place with tall mountains all around. Long ago, people built it on top of a big lake. Now the lake is gone, and the city has many houses, roads, and parks. The air can get dirty because so many cars and people are there. Sometimes the ground shakes because of earthquakes. Many people live and work there, and children play in its parks.
Miami\n\nMiami is a big city in a warm place called Florida. It is next to the ocean, so it has many beaches with soft sand and blue water. Many people in Miami speak Spanish and come from places like Cuba. You can see tall buildings, bright lights, and lots of palm trees there. People visit Miami to swim, play in the sun, and eat yummy food.
Mice\n\nA mouse is a tiny animal with soft fur. It has a small body, four short legs, a long thin tail, and round ears. You can find it in fields, forests, or sometimes in houses. It likes to eat seeds, grains, and little bits of food. It makes a soft squeak sound. A group of them is called mice.
Michael Faraday\n\nMichael Faraday was a man who loved to learn about science. He lived a long time ago and did many tests with magnets and wires. He found out how to make a magnet move a wire, which is called electricity. Today, people use his ideas to make lights turn on and toys move. He came from a family with not much money, but he worked very hard and became a great thinker.
Michael Jackson\n\nMichael Jackson was a singer and dancer. He sang songs that many people love, like the one about a spooky night. He could spin around fast and do a special walk that looked like he was sliding on the floor. People all over the world watched him on TV and cheered. He wore a shiny glove on one hand and a black hat. Even today, children and grown-ups still dance to his music.
Michelangelo\n\nMichelangelo was a man who made art a long time ago. He lived in a country called Italy. He could paint big pictures on walls and ceilings. He also made big statues out of stone. One of his most famous statues is a man named David. You can see his art in books or if you visit Italy.
Micronesia\n\nMicronesia is a big area in the ocean with many tiny islands. It is in the warm Pacific Ocean, far from big lands. Most islands are flat rings of sand and coral, but some are tall with green hills. People there live in small villages and use boats to visit other islands. They have chiefs who help make rules, and everyone works together. Many families have relatives on different islands.
Microphone\n\nA microphone is a tool that catches sound. It turns the sound into a tiny electric wave. You can find it on a phone, a computer, or a stage. People use it to make their voice louder or to record songs and stories. When you sing into it, your voice comes out of a big speaker. Some have a soft cover to stop puff sounds from the mouth.
Microscope\n\nA microscope is a tool that makes tiny things look big. It has a long tube with special glass pieces called lenses inside. You find it in schools, doctor offices, and science labs. When you put a small thing under it, you can see parts that are too small for your eyes alone. For example, you can look at a tiny bug leg or a drop of water and see little shapes moving inside.
Microwave\n\nA microwave is a kind of invisible wave that moves through the air. It is very small and fast, like light but we cannot see it. People use it to talk to far-away spaceships and to see planes in the sky. At home, a microwave oven uses it to heat food. The waves make tiny bits inside the food move fast, and that makes the food hot. You must keep the oven door closed so the waves stay inside and do not hurt you.
Microwave oven\n\nA microwave oven is a box that cooks food very fast. It uses tiny waves you cannot see. You put food inside it, close the door, and press a button. It makes the water inside the food shake and get hot. It can warm up milk, make popcorn, or heat last night’s dinner. You often see it in a kitchen at home.
Mid-Atlantic Ridge\n\nThe Mid-Atlantic Ridge is a very long mountain chain deep under the ocean. It sits in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. It is so tall that in one place, it pokes out of the water and makes the country of Iceland. The ridge is where the ground under the ocean slowly pulls apart. Hot, melted rock comes up from deep inside the Earth and cools into new hard rock. This makes the ocean floor grow a little bit wider every year.
Middle\n\nMiddle is the spot that is the same distance from two sides. It is not at the start and not at the end. You can find the middle of a line, a circle, or a sandwich. When you cut a cookie in half, the cut is in the middle. In a game of tag, the person who is 'it' stands in the middle of the yard.
Middle age\n\nMiddle age is the time when a person is not young and not old. It is when someone is about 40 to 60 years old. People in middle age often have a job and a family. They may have more money than when they were young, but they also spend a lot on their kids. Some people feel sad or worried during this time. Their body changes too. They get lines on their face and gray hair. They may get a little bigger around the middle. Women stop having babies after middle age.
Middle Ages\n\nThe Middle Ages is a long time in history. It happened in Europe a very long time ago. It lasted for about 1000 years. During this time, many people lived in castles and worked on farms. Knights wore shiny armor and rode horses. Kings and queens ruled the land. Most people could not read or write. The Middle Ages ended when people started to explore and learn new things again.
Middle East\n\nThe Middle East is a big part of the world. It has many countries with hot deserts and old cities. People live there and speak different languages. Long ago, the first big towns grew in this place. Today, many people in the Middle East follow a faith called Islam. It is also where a lot of the oil that cars and trucks use comes from.
Midnight\n\nMidnight is the middle of the night. It is the time when one day ends and a new day begins. The sky is very dark, and most people are fast asleep in their beds. You can see the moon and stars up high if the sky is clear. Some animals, like owls and bats, wake up and go out at this time.
Midwestern United States\n\nThe Midwestern United States is a big part of the country in the middle. It has many states like Ohio, Michigan, and Kansas. The land has flat fields, rolling hills, and some big lakes. People grow corn and wheat on farms there. Big cities like Chicago have tall buildings and many people. The weather can be hot in summer and very cold in winter with snow.
Might\n\nMight means something can happen, but it is not sure. It is a word we use when we do not know for sure. For example, it might rain today, so we bring an umbrella just in case. Or your friend might come over to play after lunch. It is like saying maybe, but a little bit stronger.
Migraine\n\nA migraine is a very bad headache that often hurts on one side of the head. It can make a person feel sick to their stomach and not want to see bright lights or hear loud sounds. Some people see funny shapes or spots before it starts. It can last for a few hours or even a few days. Lying down in a dark, quiet room and sleeping can help it go away.
Migration\n\nMigration is when animals move from one place to another at the same time every year. It is like a long trip that happens again and again. Many birds fly to warm places when winter comes. They come back when it gets warm again. Some fish swim far away to have their babies. Big animals like caribou walk a long way to find fresh grass to eat. Even tiny sea animals move up and down in the water every day. Migration helps animals find food and a safe place to live.
Mile\n\nA mile is a way to measure how long something is. It is a big step for grown-ups. You can use it to tell how far away a place is. When you ride in a car, the road signs might say how many miles to the next town. A mile is longer than a walk around your block. It is about how far you go if you walk for 20 minutes.
Military\n\nThe military is a big group of people who keep a country safe. They wear special clothes called uniforms that are often green or brown. You can see them in parades, on big ships, or in airplanes. They help when there is a big storm or a fire. Sometimes they march together and carry a flag.
Military aircraft\n\nA military aircraft is a flying machine that helps soldiers. It has wings, a long body, and big engines that make it go fast. You can see it in the sky or at an air show. It carries people and things, and some can drop food or water to help on the ground. A fighter jet is one kind that zooms very fast.
Military History\n\nMilitary history is the story of how people fought in wars long ago. It tells about big fights between groups of people, like knights or soldiers. You can find it in books with pictures of old swords, shields, and uniforms. It helps us learn why people fought and how they kept safe. For example, you might see a castle that was built to protect people during a war.
Milk\n\nMilk is a white drink that comes from animals like cows. It looks smooth and white, like a cloud in a cup. You find it in the fridge at home or at the store. People drink it with cookies or pour it on cereal. It helps make your bones and teeth strong. Some milk also comes from plants, like almonds or coconuts, but that kind looks white too.
Milkfish\n\nA milkfish is a big, shiny fish that lives in warm ocean water. It has a long body with silver scales and a forked tail. People in the Philippines call it bangus, and it is a very special fish there. Many people eat it for breakfast, lunch, or dinner. It tastes good with rice and a little salt. You can see it at a wet market or in a fish pond.
Milky\n\nMilky means something looks like milk. It is a soft white color, not see-through. You might see milky water in a puddle after rain mixes with dirt. Some glass is milky, so you cannot see through it clearly. A milky stone can be smooth and pretty.
Milky Way\n\nThe Milky Way is a big group of stars in the sky. It looks like a fuzzy, glowing band of light at night. You can see it best far from city lights, where the sky is very dark. It is our home in space, with our Sun and Earth inside it. Long ago, people told a story that it was made from spilled milk.
Mill\n\nA mill is a big building with a wheel that turns. It uses moving water or wind to spin the wheel. Inside, heavy stones grind grain into flour. People use the flour to make bread and cakes. Long ago, many towns had a mill near a river. You might see one in a storybook or on a farm.
Millet\n\nMillet is a tiny, round seed that people eat. It is small and yellow or white. You can find it in fields where farmers grow it. People cook it like rice and eat it for breakfast or dinner. Some people also use it to make flat bread. It is good for your body and helps your tummy feel full.
Millipede\n\nA millipede is a small, long animal with many legs. It has a body made of many round parts, and most parts have two pairs of tiny legs. It lives in wet, dark places like under rocks or old leaves in the woods. It eats dead plants and helps clean the forest floor. When it feels scared, it curls up into a tight ball to stay safe. Some kinds can make a yucky liquid that keeps bigger animals away. You might see one crawling slowly on the ground after rain.
Mimosa\n\nA mimosa is a plant with soft, feathery leaves. It has small, round, pink or purple flowers that look like tiny pom-poms. You can find it growing in warm places, like gardens or forests. The most special thing about it is that its leaves close up fast when you touch them. It does this to protect itself. Some kinds of mimosa are used by people to make special drinks, but those are not for children. You might see a mimosa in a park or a plant store.
Mind\n\nYour mind is the part of you that thinks and feels. It is inside your head, but you cannot see it or touch it. You use it when you remember your favorite toy, when you make up a story, or when you feel happy or sad. It helps you learn new things, like how to count or sing a song. When you dream at night, your mind shows you pictures and stories. Everyone has a mind, and no one else can know exactly what is in yours.
Mine\n\nA mine is a deep hole in the ground. It is dark inside, and people dig it to find things like shiny rocks or black coal. Big trucks and tools help move the dirt and rocks. People use what they find to make things like jewelry or to keep houses warm. You might see a mine in a picture book or a movie about digging.
Mineral\n\nA mineral is a hard, solid piece of the Earth. It is not made by people; it grows in nature. A mineral has a special shape inside, like tiny building blocks. You can find it in rocks, sand, and dirt. Some are shiny and pretty, like a ruby. People use it to make things like salt for food and wires for lights.
Minimalism\n\nMinimalism is a way of making art or music with very few things. It uses simple shapes, colors, or sounds. In music, a short tune or beat is played many times, but it changes a little each time. You might hear it in a song that feels calm and steady. In art, you see big blocks of color or plain stripes on a canvas. Some paintings have only one color. It is about showing that simple can be strong and beautiful.
Mining\n\nMining is digging things out of the ground. It is how people get rocks and metals that we cannot grow. Some mining scrapes the top dirt away. Some mining goes deep down into a dark hole. Workers called miners do the digging. It can be a hard and unsafe job. People use what they dig up to make things like cars, phones, and rings. A shiny gold ring starts as a tiny bit of gold from a mine.
Minority group\n\nA minority group is a group of people who are not the biggest group in a place. They may look different, speak a different language, or love in a different way. Sometimes they are not treated fairly because they are not like most people. Even if there are many of them, they can still be a minority if they have less power. The United Nations says all people should be kind and fair to them.
Minotaur\n\nA Minotaur is a make-believe monster from old Greek stories. It has the body of a man and the head and tail of a bull. It lived in a big, twisty maze called a Labyrinth. A brave hero named Theseus came and stopped it. People drew pictures of it with strong arms and big horns.
Minute\n\nA minute is a way to measure time. It is made of 60 tiny bits called seconds. When the big hand on a clock moves all the way around, one minute has passed. You can use it to know how long to brush your teeth or wait for cookies to bake. Sixty of them make one whole hour.
Miracle\n\nA miracle is something very good that happens, but nobody can explain how. It feels like magic, but some people believe it is a gift from God. You might hear a story about a sick person who gets all better in one day. That could be a miracle. It makes people feel hope and wonder.
Mirage\n\nA mirage is a trick your eyes see when light bends in the air. It happens because hot air and cold air mix in a special way. You might see it on a hot road when the road looks wet and shiny, but it is really just the sky. It can also make far-away things look like they are floating in the air. A mirage is not real water or a real floating thing — it is just light playing a game with your eyes.
Mirror\n\nA mirror is a flat piece of glass that shows you a picture of yourself. It has a shiny back that bounces light back to your eyes. You can find it on a wall, in a bathroom, or in a bedroom. People use it to see their face, brush their hair, or check their clothes. When you look into it, you see your own smile looking back at you. If you hold up a word to it, the letters look flipped around.
Miss\n\nMiss is a word you say when you want to get a lady's attention. It is used for a girl or a woman who is not married. You might hear it at school when a child talks to a teacher. It is a polite way to speak to someone you do not know well.
Mississippi\n\nMississippi is a long, winding river in the United States. It looks like a big, brown snake from above. You can find it flowing from the north all the way down to the south. Boats carry things on it, and people fish in it. Many birds and turtles live near its muddy banks.
Mississippi River\n\nThe Mississippi River is a very long river in the United States. It is a wide, blue path of water that flows through the middle of the country. You can find it starting in a lake in Minnesota and going all the way down to the big ocean water called the Gulf of Mexico. It is used by big boats to carry things from one place to another. Many cities sit next to it, like Memphis. A famous story about a boy named Huckleberry Finn takes place on this river.
Missouri River\n\nThe Missouri River is a very long river in the United States. It starts high up in the Rocky Mountains where snow melts. Then it flows across flat, dry land for many, many miles. It joins another big river called the Mississippi. The water looks brown and muddy because it carries soft dirt. Long ago, people used it to travel and move things in boats. Some people call it the Big Muddy.
Mistake\n\nA mistake is something you do that is not right. It is like when you color outside the lines or put your shoes on the wrong feet. Everyone makes mistakes sometimes, and that is okay. When you make a mistake, you can try again and learn how to do it better next time. A mistake can help you grow smarter and stronger.
Mitten\n\nA mitten is a warm cover for your hand. It has one big pocket for all four fingers and a separate pocket for the thumb. You wear it when it is cold outside, like in snow. It keeps your fingers warm and cozy. Mittens can be made of soft wool or fuzzy cloth. They often come in bright colors like red or blue. Some mittens have a string that goes through your coat so you do not lose them.
Mix\n\nA mix is when you put two or more things together. It can be colors, like red and blue making purple. It can be food, like stirring milk into cereal. You can mix sounds to make a song. When you mix things, they become one new thing.
Mixer\n\nA mixer is a tool in the kitchen. It has a handle and two round beaters that spin very fast. You plug it in and push a button to make it go. It mixes eggs, flour, and milk to make cake batter. Some mixers are big and sit on the counter. A mixer helps you cook without getting your hands tired.
Mixture\n\nA mixture is when you put two or more things together. It can be made of solids, liquids, or gases. You can often see the different parts, like in a bowl of mixed nuts. Sometimes you cannot see the parts, like when sugar melts into water. A mixture is not stuck together forever—you can often pull the parts apart again.
Moa\n\nA moa was a very big bird that could not fly. It had no wings at all. It lived only in a far-away land called New Zealand. It ate plants and leaves. It was taller than a grown-up person and very heavy. Long ago, people hunted it for food. Now there are no moa left anywhere on Earth.
Moai\n\nA moai is a big stone statue. It has a large head, a body, and arms, but the head looks very big. You can find it on Easter Island, a far-away island in the big blue sea. Long ago, people made it to remember their family and bring good luck. Some moai stand near the water, and some are still in the ground where they were made.
Moat\n\nA moat is a big, wide ditch filled with water. It goes all the way around a castle. Long ago, people built moats to keep enemies away from the castle. It was very hard for an enemy to swim across a deep moat. It also stopped enemies from digging under the castle walls. Some moats had no water at all, just a deep, dry ditch. In stories, moats sometimes have big, scary animals in them, but that is not true. A real moat might have had fish for food.
Mob\n\nA mob is a big group of people all in one place. They may be loud and pushy, and they move close together. Sometimes a mob is angry and wants to break things. You might see a mob in a story or on TV, but it is not a safe place for a child. It is better to stay away from a mob and find a grown-up.
Mobile\n\nA mobile is a toy that hangs above a baby's bed. It has light, colorful parts that spin slowly. You can see it in a baby's room. It moves when the air blows or when you push it gently. The baby looks up at it and feels calm. Some mobiles play soft music too.
Mobile device\n\nA mobile device is a small machine you can hold in your hands. It has a screen that lights up and shows pictures or words. You can carry it in your pocket or a bag. It runs on a battery, so you do not need to plug it into the wall all the time. People use it to talk to friends, play games, or watch videos. A phone and a tablet are two kinds of mobile devices. You may see one at home or on the bus.
Mobile phone\n\nA mobile phone is a small phone you can carry with you. It has no wires, so you can talk to people far away. It looks like a flat box with a screen and buttons or a touch screen. You find it in people's hands, pockets, or bags. People use it to call, send messages, take pictures, and play games. A smartphone is a kind of mobile phone that is also a tiny computer. You might see your mom or dad using one every day.
Mockingbird\n\nA mockingbird is a small gray bird. It has a long tail and white spots on its wings. You can find it in trees and bushes in many places. It sings many different songs, and it can copy the sounds of other birds. Sometimes it even copies the sound of a cat or a car alarm. It sings loudly and fast, one sound after another.
Model\n\nA model is a small copy of something big. It looks like the real thing but is much smaller. You can find it in a toy store or a museum. People use it to show how something works or to play with it. For example, a toy car is a model of a real car.
Modern\n\nModern means something is new and from today. It is the opposite of old or from long ago. You can see modern things all around you, like a shiny new car or a tall building with lots of glass. A modern toy might light up and make sounds, while an old toy might be made of wood. People use the word modern to talk about ideas, clothes, or ways of doing things that are popular right now.
Modern art\n\nModern art is a kind of art that people made a long time ago, from about 150 years ago to 50 years ago. It looks different from old art because artists tried new things. They used bright colors, funny shapes, and sometimes just lines and dots. You can see it in big buildings called museums. It can be a painting of a face that looks like a puzzle, or a picture of a flower that is just a big red circle. Some modern art does not look like a real thing at all, but it still feels nice to look at.
Modern dance\n\nModern dance is a way of moving your body to music on a stage. It does not have strict rules like ballet. Dancers often make up their own moves to show feelings. They may dance with no shoes and wear any clothes they like. You might see it at a show or in a movie.
Modern Era\n\nThe Modern Era is a time that started a long time ago and is still going on. It is when people began to use big machines and new ideas. You can see it in cars, phones, and tall buildings. It is the time we live in right now. In this time, people can talk to someone far away with a small screen.
Modernism\n\nModernism is a way of making art, buildings, and stories. It started a long time ago when people wanted to try new shapes and ideas. You can see it in tall glass buildings with straight lines. It also shows up in paintings that use bright colors and simple forms. Some books and poems use modernism by playing with words in fun ways.
Mojave Desert\n\nThe Mojave Desert is a big, dry place with lots of sand and rocks. It is in parts of California, Nevada, and Arizona. It has very hot days and cold nights. You can find special parks there, like Joshua Tree National Park. Some plants grow in the sand, like the Creosote Bush. These plants do not need much water. Many animals live there and eat the plants.
Mold\n\nMold is a tiny living thing that grows in wet places. It looks like fuzzy spots that can be green, black, or white. You might find it on old bread or fruit that has been left out too long. It can also grow on walls or in bathrooms where it is damp. Mold helps break down old food and leaves outside, but inside a house it can make people sick. It is important to keep things dry and clean so mold does not grow.
Moldova\n\nMoldova is a country in the east part of Europe. It is next to Ukraine and Romania. The main city is called Chișinău. People there speak a language that sounds like Romanian. Long ago, it was part of bigger countries, but now it is its own place. Many people there do not have a lot of money. It is working to join a big group of countries called the European Union.
Mole\n\nA mole is a small furry animal that lives under the ground. It has soft, dark fur that feels like velvet. Its front paws are big and strong, so it can dig long tunnels in the dirt. It eats bugs and worms it finds in the soil. A mole does not see very well, but it can feel its way in the dark. You might see little hills of dirt in a yard or park where a mole has been digging.
Mole cricket\n\nA mole cricket is a small bug that digs in the dirt. It has a brown body and big front legs that look like little shovels. It uses those legs to dig tunnels under the ground. You can find it in gardens or fields where the soil is soft. It eats tiny worms, roots, and grass. Birds and other animals like to eat it.
Molecular\n\nMolecular is a word that tells us about the tiny, tiny bits that make up everything around us. It is like saying something is about the smallest building blocks. You cannot see these bits with your eyes alone. They are in water, air, and even in your own body. When many of these bits stick together, they make the things we can touch and see.
Molecule\n\nA molecule is a tiny group of atoms that stick together. It is the smallest piece of something that still acts like that thing. You cannot see a molecule because it is way too small. In air, molecules fly around fast. In water, they slide past each other. In a hard block, they shake in place. A water molecule has two small hydrogen atoms and one bigger oxygen atom. When you drink a glass of water, you drink many, many water molecules.
Mollusc\n\nA mollusc is a soft animal with no bones inside. It often has a hard shell on the outside to keep it safe. Some molluscs live in the ocean, some live in lakes and rivers, and some live on land. You can find a snail in a garden or a clam at the beach. Many molluscs move around on a flat, soft foot. Some, like an octopus, have long arms and no shell at all. People eat some molluscs, like clams and squid.
Mollusca\n\nMollusca is a big group of soft animals. It has a soft body, and many kinds have a hard shell on the outside. You can find them in the ocean, in lakes, or on wet ground. Some crawl slowly, and some stay in one spot. A snail is one kind you might see in a garden. A clam is another kind that lives in the sand at the beach.
Mom\n\nA mom is a grown-up who takes care of you. She is the one who gave you life and loves you more than anyone. She has soft hands and a warm smile. You find her at home, in the kitchen, or by your bed at night. She cooks yummy food, reads stories, and hugs you when you are sad. When you fall and hurt your knee, she kisses it better. A mom is like a safe, cozy blanket on a cold day.
Moment\n\nA moment is a very short bit of time. It is like the blink of an eye or a quick snap of your fingers. You can find a moment in every part of your day, like when you take a bite of a cookie or hear a funny joke. People use the word to talk about something that happens fast. A happy moment is when you get a hug from someone you love.
Momentum\n\nMomentum is how hard it is to stop a moving thing. It depends on how big the thing is and how fast it goes. A big, fast truck has a lot of it. A small, slow toy car has only a little. When things bump into each other, it can move from one to the other. If you roll a ball and it hits another ball, the first ball slows down and the second ball starts to move. That is it passing between them.
Mommy\n\nA mommy is a grown-up who takes care of you. She is the lady who gave you life. She may have soft hands and a warm smile. You find her at home, in the kitchen, or at the park. She hugs you when you are sad and reads you stories at bedtime. She makes your favorite food and helps you get dressed. A mommy loves you more than anything.
Mona\n\nMona is a name for a girl. She has a smile that makes people feel happy. You might see her in a picture hanging on a wall. In the picture, she sits very still with her hands folded. People from all over the world come to look at her face. No one knows for sure what she is thinking, but her eyes seem to follow you.
Monaco\n\nMonaco is a very small country. It is so small that the whole country is just one city. It sits next to the sea, near France and Italy. Many rich people live there because they do not have to pay money to the country. It has a big, fancy building where people play games of chance. It also has a famous car race on its streets every year. The country is ruled by a prince, and a princess once lived there who was a movie star.
Monarchy\n\nA monarchy is a way a country is run by one person called a king or queen. It is a job that often passes from a parent to a child when the old ruler dies or steps down. You can find a monarchy in places like the United Kingdom, where a king or queen lives in a big palace. The king or queen may wave to people, wear a crown, and be a symbol for the whole country. In some places, the king or queen makes all the rules, but in many places today, they share the job with a group of people chosen by the country.
Monastery\n\nA monastery is a big house where monks live together. It has a special room for quiet prayer. Monks are men who share everything and do not marry. Long ago, monasteries were places where people kept books and taught others. Some monasteries are far from towns, and monks grow their own food there. Today, monks also help people nearby by teaching or caring for the sick.
Monday\n\nMonday is the first day of the week. It comes after Sunday and before Tuesday. On Monday, many people go back to work or school after the weekend. It is a day to start new things and make plans. Some people feel a little tired on Monday morning, but a good breakfast helps.
Money\n\nMoney is something people use to buy things they need or want. It can be coins made of metal or paper bills with numbers and pictures. You find it in a wallet, a piggy bank, or a store cash box. People work to earn money, then trade it for food, toys, or clothes. A child might get a coin from a parent to buy a candy at the shop.
Mongol\n\nA Mongol is a person from a big, open land called Mongolia. They live in round, moveable homes called yurts. Long ago, they rode fast horses across wide, grassy fields. Today, some still live with their animals and move with the seasons. A Mongol might wear a warm, colorful coat and a pointed hat. They love to sing songs and tell stories about brave heroes.
Mongol Empire\n\nThe Mongol Empire was a very big group of lands long ago. It was ruled by a strong leader named Genghis Khan. He and his horse riders traveled far across grassy fields and deserts. They took over many places and made one of the biggest lands ever. People in the empire traded silk, spices, and stories along long roads. Today, you can still see old walls and hear tales about them in some countries.
Mongolia\n\nMongolia is a big country in Asia. It has wide, flat grassy lands and some tall mountains. In the south, there is a hot, sandy place called the Gobi Desert. Many people there move from place to place with their animals, like horses and sheep. They live in round, white tents called gers. The capital city is Ulaanbaatar, where many people live. In winter, it gets very, very cold, and in summer, it is warm. Mongolia has more sunny days than most places on Earth.
Mongoose\n\nA mongoose is a small furry animal with a long body and a bushy tail. It has short legs, sharp claws, and tiny round ears. It lives in warm places like Africa and Asia, where it runs through grass and bushes. It is famous for fighting and eating snakes, even big ones with poison. It moves very fast and is not afraid. Some people know a mongoose from a story called Rikki-Tikki-Tavi, where it saves a family from two bad snakes.
Monk\n\nA monk is a person who lives a simple, quiet life. He often wears a long robe and has no hair on his head. You can find him in a quiet building called a temple or a monastery. He spends his day praying, thinking, and helping others. He does not keep many things and shares what he has. Sometimes he sings soft songs and lights candles.
Monkey\n\nA monkey is a smart animal that lives mostly in trees. It has two arms, two legs, and a long tail. Some monkeys have a tail that can grab branches like a hand. Monkeys live in warm places with lots of trees, like jungles and forests. They eat fruit, leaves, and sometimes bugs. A group of monkeys is called a troop. You might see a monkey at the zoo swinging from branch to branch.
Monopoly\n\nA monopoly is when only one person or company sells something. It means no one else can sell the same thing. For example, if only one store in town sells ice cream, that store is a monopoly. It can pick the price because there is no other store to buy from. Sometimes a monopoly is a big company that makes all the phones or all the lights work. The government watches monopolies to make sure prices are fair.
Monopoly (game)\n\nMonopoly is a fun game you play on a flat board with friends or family. It has a big square board with many colored spaces. You move a small piece around the board by rolling two dice. You can buy streets and houses with play money. The goal is to have the most money when others run out. You can find it in toy stores or at home on game night.
Monorail\n\nA monorail is a kind of train that rides on one thin rail. It looks like a long bus that sits on top of a tall track. You can find it in some big cities, where it carries people from place to place. It moves on wheels that hug the rail from the sides. Some monorails use magnets to float above the rail, which makes the ride very smooth. Because it is hard to build, you do not see it everywhere. A monorail is often high up, so it does not get stuck in car traffic.
Monotreme\n\nA monotreme is a very special kind of animal. It has fur and makes milk for its babies, just like other mammals. But it is different because it lays eggs, like a bird or a turtle. It lives in Australia and New Guinea. The two kinds you might see are the platypus and the echidna. The platypus has a flat bill like a duck and loves to swim. The echidna has sharp spines and a long nose. Both are shy and hard to find in the wild.
Monsoon\n\nA monsoon is a big wind that brings lots of rain for many days. It happens when the land gets very hot and the sea stays cool. The hot air over the land goes up, and cool wet air from the sea rushes in. This wet air makes heavy rain fall on the land. You can see a monsoon in places like India, where it rains so much that streets fill with water. It helps plants grow, but sometimes it causes floods.
Monster\n\nA monster is a made-up creature from stories. It often looks big, scary, or ugly with sharp teeth or claws. You find it in fairy tales, movies, or books where it might roar or chase people. Sometimes a monster is mean and tries to scare others, but in some stories it is friendly and helps. A child might see a monster in a cartoon like a big, furry one with horns.
Mont Blanc\n\nMont Blanc is a very tall mountain. It is covered with white snow on top. You can find it in a big group of mountains called the Alps. It sits between two countries, France and Italy. Many people climb it with special boots and ropes. From far away, it looks like a giant white triangle against the blue sky.
Montenegro\n\nMontenegro is a small country near the sea. It has tall mountains that look dark, so its name means Black Mountain. You can find it on a map next to other countries like Croatia and Albania. Many people there speak a language called Montenegrin. The capital city is Podgorica, where many people live and work. In the past, it was part of a bigger country, but now it stands on its own. The sea next to it is blue and pretty, and people like to swim there in summer.
Month\n\nA month is a way to measure time. It is one of the twelve parts of a year. Each month has about 30 days. You can see months on a calendar on the wall. Some months are named January, June, or October. A month is a little longer than the time it takes for the moon to go around the Earth.
Montreal\n\nMontreal is a big city in Canada. It sits on an island in a wide river. In the middle of it, there is a small mountain called Mount Royal. Many people there speak French. You can see old stone buildings and ride in a cart pulled by a horse. It is also where ice hockey was first played.
Moo\n\nMoo is the sound a cow makes. It is a low, loud noise that comes from its big mouth. You can hear it on a farm when a cow is hungry or wants to say hello. Sometimes a calf, which is a baby cow, makes a smaller moo to call its mom. If you visit a farm, you might hear many moos in the field.
Mood\n\nA mood is how you feel inside. It can be happy, sad, or angry. When you wake up and want to play, you are in a good mood. When you feel grumpy and want to be alone, you are in a bad mood. A mood can stay for a little while or a long time. Things that happen can change it. If you get a new toy, you feel happy. If you fall down, you feel sad. Everyone has moods every day.
Moon\n\nThe Moon is a big, round rock that moves around Earth. It looks white or gray in the sky. You can see it at night, and sometimes during the day. It is very far away, so it looks small. The Moon has no air, no wind, and no rain. It is covered in dust and has many big holes called craters. The Moon does not make its own light. It shines because the Sun lights it up. Sometimes it looks like a circle, and sometimes it looks like a thin banana. People have walked on the Moon and left footprints there. Those footprints stay for a very long time because there is no wind to blow them away.
Moon landing\n\nA Moon landing is when a spaceship goes all the way to the Moon and touches down on its ground. The Moon is a big round rock that shines in the night sky. It is very far away. People built a special ship to fly there. The ship had a part that stayed in space and a small part that went down to the Moon. When it landed, a door opened and a person stepped out. He wore a big white suit and a round helmet. He walked on the Moon and left footprints in the gray dust. He put up a flag and picked up some rocks to bring back. Only a few people have ever walked on the Moon. The last time was a long time ago. Now we use robots to land on the Moon and look around.
Moor\n\nA moor is a big, open land with low plants and soft, wet ground. It has no tall trees, just small bushes, grass, and moss. You can find it in places where it rains a lot and the sky looks wide. Many birds and small animals live there. The ground feels squishy under your feet because it holds water. Sometimes people walk on a moor with boots to keep their feet dry.
Moose\n\nA moose is a very big animal with long legs and a big nose. It has brown fur that keeps it warm. It lives in cold places with many trees, lakes, and snow. A boy moose has big flat antlers on its head. It eats grass, leaves, and water plants. Sometimes people see a moose near a road, and cars must be careful not to hit it.
Mop\n\nA mop is a long stick with soft strings or a sponge at the end. It is used to clean floors with water and soap. You push it back and forth to wipe away dirt and spills. Many people keep a mop in a closet or a bucket. After using it, you rinse it and let it dry.
Morality\n\nMorality is knowing what is right and what is wrong. It is like a little voice inside that helps you choose to be kind and fair. You learn it from your mom, dad, teachers, and friends. When you share a toy or help someone who is sad, that is a good choice. When a story ends with a short lesson, that lesson is called the moral. The opposite of a good choice is a bad choice.
More\n\nMore means a bigger number or a bigger amount of something. If you have one cookie and get another cookie, you have more cookies. You can see more when you add things together. At snack time, you might ask for more crackers. When you pour water into a cup, the water goes up and you have more water. More is the opposite of less.
Morning\n\nMorning is the first part of the day. It starts when the sun comes up and the sky gets light. You wake up in the morning and eat breakfast. The air feels cool and fresh. Birds sing and flowers open up. Morning is a good time to play outside or go to school.
Morocco\n\nMorocco is a country in the north of Africa. It has big blue water on two sides: the sea to the north and the ocean to the west. The land has green farms, tall cold mountains, and hot dry sand. The king lives in the capital city called Rabat, but the biggest city is Casablanca. Many people in Morocco speak Arabic or Berber. They cook tasty food with spices and mint tea. Some people visit to see old buildings and warm sunny beaches.
Morse code\n\nMorse code is a way to send messages using dots and dashes. A dot is a short beep or flash, and a dash is a longer one. People used it a long time ago with machines that went beep-beep. Sailors on ships could blink lights to talk to other ships. Today, some people still use it for fun with radios. You can even try it on a phone app.
Mortgage\n\nA mortgage is a big promise to pay back money for a house. It is a way to buy a home when you do not have all the money right now. A bank gives you the money, and you promise to give it back a little bit every month. The house is like a safety net: if you cannot pay, the bank may take the house. Many grown-ups use a mortgage to live in their own home.
Mosaic\n\nA mosaic is a picture made from many tiny pieces. It uses small bits of stone, glass, or colored tiles. You can see it on walls, floors, and even on the ground outside. People push the little pieces into soft wet stuff that dries hard and holds them tight. Some pieces are shiny like gold, but they are really glass with a thin gold back. Old mosaics from long ago still look pretty today. Many old churches have big mosaics that tell stories. Today, people make mosaics from broken plates, mirrors, and bright tiles to make a plain wall look happy.
Moscow\n\nMoscow is a big city in Russia. It has many old and pretty buildings, like the colorful Saint Basil's Cathedral and the tall Kremlin walls. It sits next to a river called the Moskva River. Many people live there, and it is the capital city where the country's leaders work. In winter, it gets very cold and snow covers the ground. You can ride a train under the ground called the Metro to go around the city.
Moses\n\nMoses is a very important person from old, old stories. He lived a long, long time ago. In the stories, he was a baby who was put in a basket on a river to keep him safe. A princess found him and took care of him. When he grew up, he helped his people leave a place where they were not treated well. He led them through a big sea that opened up for them. He also went up a tall mountain and came back with special rules from God. These rules are called the Ten Commandments. They tell people to be good and kind. Many people still remember Moses and his story today.
Mosque\n\nA mosque is a special building where Muslim people go to pray. It often has a big round dome on top and a tall thin tower called a minaret. You can find a mosque in many towns and cities around the world. Inside, people sit on soft rugs and face a wall that points to a holy city. Before they pray, they wash their hands and feet to be clean. A mosque is also a place where people learn, meet friends, and celebrate happy days like weddings.
Mosquito\n\nA mosquito is a tiny flying bug. It has six legs, two wings, and a long thin mouth. You can find it near water, like ponds or puddles. The girl mosquito bites people and animals to drink a little blood. The bite makes a red bump that feels itchy. The boy mosquito does not bite; it drinks sweet juice from flowers. Mosquitoes can carry germs that make people sick, so it is good to stay away from them.
Moss\n\nMoss is a tiny green plant that grows in soft, fuzzy patches. It has no roots, no flowers, and no seeds. You find it in wet places like near a river, on rocks, or on tree bark in the woods. It soaks up water like a sponge to stay alive. When it is dry, it can pause and wait for rain. Many people see moss on old stones or in shady gardens.
Most\n\nMost means the biggest number or the biggest part of something. If you have ten cookies and you eat seven, you ate most of the cookies. It is a word that helps you talk about almost all of a group. When you see a big pile of red blocks with just a few blue blocks, you can say most blocks are red.
Mostly\n\nMostly means almost all of something. If you have ten cookies and you eat nine, you ate mostly all the cookies. It is a word we use when a big part of a group is one way. For example, if the sky is mostly blue with a few white clouds, it means there is more blue than clouds. You can use it to talk about food, toys, or even your day.
Moth\n\nA moth is a small flying bug with soft wings. It looks a lot like a butterfly, but it comes out at night. It has two feelers on its head that look like tiny feathers. When it rests, it holds its wings flat on its back. You can see a moth near a bright light outside at night. It flies around the light because the light confuses it. Some moths help flowers grow by carrying yellow dust from flower to flower. A baby moth is called a caterpillar, and it eats leaves.
Mother\n\nA mother is a woman who has a child. She can give birth to a baby after carrying it inside her body for about nine months. She can also be a mother by taking care of a child who is not born from her body. A mother feeds her baby milk from her body or from a bottle. She holds the baby close, sings soft songs, and keeps it warm and safe. Many children call their mother "Mom" or "Mommy."
Motion\n\nMotion is when something moves from one place to another. It can be fast like a running dog, or slow like a turtle walking. You see it when a ball rolls on the floor, when a swing goes back and forth, or when your legs push you on a scooter. Everything that moves has motion. Even when you blink your eyes, that is a tiny motion.
Motion (disambiguation)\n\nMotion is when something moves from one place to another. It can be a ball rolling on the floor or a bird flying in the sky. You see it when you run, jump, or wave your hand. It is also when a car drives down the street or a leaf falls from a tree. Everything that changes where it is has motion.
Motivation\n\nMotivation is the feeling that makes you want to do something. It is like a little push inside you. When you are hungry, it tells you to eat. When you see a toy you like, it tells you to play. It can come from inside, like feeling proud after you finish a puzzle. It can also come from outside, like a smile from Mom when you share. Everyone has it, and it helps you try new things.
Motor\n\nA motor is a machine that makes things move. It has parts inside that spin or turn when you give it power. You can find a motor in a car, a fan, a toy train, or a blender. It helps the wheels go around or the blades spin fast. When you press a button on a toy car, the motor inside makes it zoom across the floor.
Motorcycle\n\nA motorcycle is a machine that takes people from one place to another. It has two wheels, a seat, and a loud motor. It looks like a bicycle but goes much faster. You can see it on roads and sometimes on dirt tracks. One person sits on it and holds the handles to steer. Sometimes a friend rides on the back. It is smaller than a car, so it can zip through tight spaces. But it does not have a roof or doors, so the rider must wear a hard hat called a helmet. Many people use it for fun or to get to work.
Moulting\n\nMoulting is when an animal drops its old skin or coat. It happens so the animal can grow bigger or get a fresh cover. A snake slides out of its old skin and leaves it behind. A bird loses old feathers and grows new ones. A dog loses some fur, especially when the weather gets warm. After moulting, the animal has a clean, new layer that fits better.
Mount\n\nA mount is an animal you can ride on. It has a strong back and four legs. You can find it on a farm or in a big field. People sit on it to go from one place to another. A horse is a mount that many children see in books or at a petting zoo.
Mount Etna\n\nMount Etna is a big mountain that can shoot out hot, melted rock. It sits on an island called Sicily, near the country of Italy. It is the biggest fire mountain in all of Europe that still wakes up. Sometimes it gets loud and red, and hot orange rock called lava runs down its sides. The lava can burn trees and houses. People who live near it watch it very carefully. They move away when it gets too loud. Even though it can be scary, many people visit to see it from far away.
Mount Everest\n\nMount Everest is the tallest mountain on Earth. It is a giant rock and ice peak that reaches way up into the sky. It sits in a faraway place called Asia, between two countries named Nepal and China. The top is so high that the air is very thin, and people need extra air to breathe. Many brave climbers try to walk to the top, but it is very hard and cold. The first people to reach the top were Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay. Today, some people live near the bottom and help climbers by carrying food and tents.
Mount Fuji\n\nMount Fuji is a very tall mountain in Japan. It is the tallest mountain there. It is also a sleeping fire mountain. It has a white top that is snow. You can see it from far away. Many people climb it in the summer. It is in many pretty pictures and art.
Mount Kailash\n\nMount Kailash is a very tall, rocky mountain in a far-away land called Tibet. It has a round top that is always covered with white snow. Many people think it is a holy place. They walk around the bottom of it to show love and respect. No one climbs to the top of it because people believe it is too special to touch.
Mount Kenya\n\nMount Kenya is a very tall mountain in the country of Kenya. It is the tallest mountain in Kenya and the second tallest in all of Africa. It is an old volcano that does not erupt anymore. It sits right on the equator, which is an imaginary line around the middle of the Earth. You can find it northeast of the big city called Nairobi. The top of the mountain is so high that it has snow and ice, even though it is in a warm place.
Mount Kilimanjaro\n\nMount Kilimanjaro is a very tall mountain in Africa. It has a flat top and is so high that snow sits on it, even when the land around it is hot. You can find it in a country called Tanzania, where the ground is mostly flat. People from all over the world climb it, walking up long paths for many days. From the top, you can see far across the plains. Long ago, it was a fire mountain, but it has been quiet for a very, very long time.
Mount St. Helens\n\nMount St. Helens is a big mountain that can blow up. It is a volcano in a place called Washington. It looks like a tall cone with a wide, round hole at the top. Long ago, people called it a name that means fire mountain. In 1980, it blew up with a loud boom. Hot rocks and ash flew high into the sky. The top of the mountain fell down and became shorter. Gray mud ran down the sides and broke trees and bridges. Today, it still has small puffs of steam and ash. You can see it from far away on a clear day.
Mount Tai\n\nMount Tai is a very tall mountain in China. It has rocks, trees, and a top that reaches high into the sky. Many people visit it to walk up the long paths and see the view. It is a special place where people have come for a very long time to feel close to nature and the sky. Some people go there for a big happy party with music and dancing. You can see it in pictures of China with its big shape and green trees.
Mount Vesuvius\n\nMount Vesuvius is a big mountain that can blow up hot fire and smoke. It is in a country called Italy, near a big blue sea. A long time ago, it threw out so much hot ash that it covered two whole towns. The towns stayed hidden under the ash for many, many years. Today, people can walk there and see old houses and streets. It still sleeps, but one day it might wake up again.
Mountain\n\nA mountain is a very big bump on the ground. It is much taller than a hill and has a pointy top. You can find it in many places, like in big parks or far away lands. Some mountains have snow on top all year, even when it is warm down below. People like to climb up a mountain to see far, far away. A mountain can be made when hot rock from deep inside the earth pushes up, or when big pieces of land slowly bump into each other. The tallest one on Earth is called Mount Everest.
Mountain biking\n\nMountain biking is riding a strong bike on bumpy, rocky paths. It has big, knobby tires and a tough frame. You find it on dirt trails in forests, hills, or mountains. People ride it for fun and to go fast down slopes. A rider wears a helmet and pads to stay safe.
Mountain pass\n\nA mountain pass is a low path between two tall hills or mountains. It looks like a saddle on a horse, with high ground on both sides. You find it high up where the land dips down. People use it to walk or drive from one side of the mountains to the other. Long ago, traders and travelers crossed passes to bring food and goods to new places. Today, roads and train tracks often go through a pass. Some passes have a tunnel under them so cars can go faster. The top of a pass is flat, so people sometimes build small houses or shops there.
Mountain range\n\nA mountain range is a long line of many mountains close together. It has tall peaks, low valleys, and paths called passes. You can see mountain ranges in many parts of the world, like the big snowy ones in pictures. They are made of rock and can be very old. When clouds hit a mountain range, it often makes rain or snow on one side. Over a very long time, wind and water wear the mountains down into smaller hills.
Mountaineering\n\nMountaineering is climbing up big, tall mountains. It is a hobby for many people, but a few do it as a job. A person who does it is called a mountaineer. They use their arms and legs to pull and push up the rocks and snow. They wear strong shoes and a hard hat to stay safe. They also use ropes to hold on to each other. It can be very cold and slippery, so they bring warm clothes and tools. Some mountaineers climb to see the view from the top. Others study the mountain for science. It is hard work, but it feels good to reach the top.
Mouse\n\nA mouse is a tiny animal with soft fur. It has a pointy nose, small round ears, a long thin tail, and tiny feet. You can find it in houses, fields, or forests. It looks for food like seeds and berries. Some people keep it as a pet in a cage. A mouse can be brown or gray. It is very quick and can run fast. Cats and owls try to catch it.
Mouth\n\nA mouth is the hole in your face that you use to eat and talk. It has lips on the outside and teeth and a tongue inside. You find it on every person and animal. It chews food into tiny bits so your body can use it. It also helps you say words, sing songs, and laugh. When you smile, your mouth shows your teeth.
Move\n\nTo move is to go from one place to another. It can be a big jump, a small step, or a wiggle. You move your body when you walk, run, or dance. Animals move too—a bird flies, a fish swims, and a worm crawls. When you move a toy, you pick it up and put it somewhere new. Moving helps you play, work, and get things done.
Movement\n\nMovement is when something changes its place or position. It can be fast like a rabbit hopping, or slow like a snail crawling. You see movement when you run, jump, or wave your hand. Animals use movement to find food or play. Even things like leaves move when the wind blows.
Movie\n\nA movie is a story told with moving pictures and sound. It can make you laugh, cry, or feel excited. You can watch it at home on a TV, on a tablet, or in a big dark room called a theater. People make it by taking many fast pictures and adding voices and music. Some movies are about funny animals, and some are about brave heroes. A movie you might know is one with a talking snowman or a flying carpet.
Movie festival\n\nA movie festival is a big show where people watch many movies. It happens in a big room with a very large screen. Many people come to see new movies together. Sometimes the people who made the movies talk about them. You might see a movie festival in a big city near you.
Movie theatre\n\nA movie theatre is a big room where people watch movies together. It has a very large screen at the front, and many soft chairs to sit in. The sound comes from speakers on the walls, so you can hear the movie all around you. You can buy popcorn, candy, and drinks at a little shop inside. A movie theatre is sometimes called a cinema. Some have more than one screen, so you can pick which movie to see. It is a fun place to go with your family.
Mozambique\n\nMozambique is a country in Africa. It sits next to the big blue ocean on one side and has other countries around it. A long river called the Zambezi runs through the middle. The land has flat parts, hills, and some tall rocky places. Many people live in small villages and grow food like corn and cassava. They speak Portuguese and other local languages. The weather is hot and has a rainy time and a dry time. People make music with wooden drums and a kind of xylophone called a marimba. They also carve beautiful wooden masks and figures. A favorite food is chicken cooked with a spicy red sauce. Children there like to play football.
Mozart\n\nMozart was a man who made music a long time ago. He played the piano and wrote many songs. His music is still played today in big rooms with lots of chairs. You might hear it in a cartoon or a movie. Some of his songs are fast and happy, and some are slow and soft.
Mr\n\nMr is a short word we put before a man's name. It is a way to be polite, like saying hello with your words. You might hear it when someone talks to your dad or a teacher. For example, your friend's dad might be called Mr Smith. It is not used for boys, only for grown-up men.
Much\n\nMuch means a lot of something. It is a word we use when there is more than a little. You can have much water in a big cup or much sand in a bucket. When you see many toys on the floor, you can say there is much to clean up. It is the opposite of a tiny bit.
Mud\n\nMud is soft, wet dirt. It feels squishy and sticky when you touch it. You can find it on the ground after rain or near a pond. Children like to play in it and make mud pies. Pigs and some other animals roll in it to stay cool. When it dries, it becomes hard and can crack.
Muddy\n\nMuddy means covered in wet, sticky dirt. It feels soft and squishy under your feet. You find it outside after rain, in puddles or on a path. When you play in it, your shoes and clothes get brown and dirty. A muddy puddle is fun to jump in with boots on.
Mug\n\nA mug is a cup with a handle. It is round and deep, and you can hold it with one hand. People use it to drink hot things like milk, tea, or hot chocolate. You can find a mug in the kitchen, on a shelf, or next to the sink. Some mugs have pictures, words, or funny faces on them. A mug keeps your drink warm while you sip.
Mughal\n\nMughal is a name for a group of people who lived long ago in a big land called India. They built very big, pretty houses with round tops and tall towers. One famous house they built is the Taj Mahal, which is all white and shiny. People today still visit it to see how beautiful it is. The Mughal people also made soft, colorful cloth and cooked yummy food with lots of spices.
Mughal Empire\n\nThe Mughal Empire was a big group of people who ruled a large part of India a long time ago. They had a strong leader called an emperor. They built beautiful buildings with big domes and tall towers. One famous building they made is the Taj Mahal, which looks like a white palace. People visit it today to see how pretty it is. The empire was known for its art, gardens, and busy markets.
Mulberry\n\nA mulberry is a tree that grows sweet fruit. It has wide green leaves that can have bumpy edges. The fruit grows in little bunches and can be red, dark purple, or white. People pick the fruit to eat fresh or to make pies and sweet drinks. Some mulberry leaves are food for a special worm that makes silk.
Mule\n\nA mule is an animal that comes from a horse mom and a donkey dad. It has long ears like a donkey and a big body like a horse. Its coat can be white, gray, brown, or black. People use it to pull carts and carry heavy things. You might see one on a farm or in a parade.
Mullet (fish)\n\nA mullet is a kind of fish that lives in the water. It has a long body with two fins on its back and a small mouth shaped like a triangle. You can find it in warm seas near the shore, and sometimes in rivers and lakes. It eats tiny bits of old plants and animals from the mud. People catch it to eat, and it has been food for a very long time. Sometimes it jumps out of the water to get away from bigger fish that want to eat it.
Multiculturalism\n\nMulticulturalism is when many different kinds of people live together in one place. It means people have different ways of talking, eating, and playing. You can see it in a big city where families come from far-away lands. They share their songs, food, and stories with each other. Everyone is kind and says it is okay to be different. A school with children from many places is a good example.
Multilingualism\n\nMultilingualism is when a person can talk in more than one language. It means you know words from two or more ways of speaking. Many people learn one language as a baby and another later in school. You can find people who speak two languages in big cities and in families that moved from one country to another. It helps when you travel or meet new friends who do not talk like you. A person who knows many languages is sometimes called a polyglot.
Multimedia\n\nMultimedia is a way to share stories or ideas using many things at once. It can use words, pictures, sounds, and moving pictures all together. You see it on a computer, a tablet, or a phone. A game on a tablet that has music, talking, and moving pictures is multimedia. A video that shows a song with dancing and words on the screen is multimedia too.
Multiplication\n\nMultiplication is a way to add the same number many times. It uses a special sign that looks like a small x. You can think of it as counting groups of things. For example, if you have 3 bags and each bag has 2 apples, you have 3 times 2 apples, which is 6 apples. It helps you find the total quickly without adding one by one. You can see it on a chart called a times table at school.
Mum\n\nA mum is your mom. She is the person who takes care of you every day. She gives you hugs, makes your meals, and reads you stories at bedtime. You can find her at home, in the kitchen, or in the garden. She loves you more than anything in the whole wide world.
Mumbai\n\nMumbai is a very big city in India. It sits next to the sea on the west side of the country. Many, many people live there — more than you can count. It has tall buildings, busy streets, and a big bridge by the water. People in Mumbai work with money, make movies, and sell things. The movies they make are full of songs and dancing. Boats and trains help people move around the city every day.
Mummification\n\nMummification is a way to keep a dead body from rotting. It makes the body dry and leathery. Long ago in Egypt, people did this on purpose. They took out the soft parts inside the body and wrapped it in cloth strips. They put a mask on the face so the person could be known later. Sometimes a body dries out all by itself in a very hot, dry place like a desert. A mummy can also form in a cold, windy place or in a wet, sour bog. You can see a mummy in a big museum.
Mummy\n\nA mummy is a mom. It is a warm word for mother. A child calls her mom "Mummy" when they want a hug or need help. She takes care of you, makes food, and reads stories at bedtime. You might say "Mummy, look!" when you draw a picture. She smiles and says "Good job!"
Mumps\n\nMumps is a sickness that only people can get. It makes parts of the face and neck swell up and feel sore. A person with it may feel very hot and have a headache. There is a special shot that can stop a person from getting it. Many children get this shot so they stay healthy.
Munich\n\nMunich is a big city in Germany. It has many houses, tall buildings, and a river that runs through it. Many people live there, and it is a place where cars, trains, and buses move around. People in Munich work in offices, shops, and big halls where they make things. Some people go to a big park in the middle of the city to play and walk. In the fall, many people come to Munich for a happy party with music, food, and rides. It is a city that many children visit with their families.
Mural\n\nA mural is a big painting on a wall or a ceiling. It is made with bright colors and can cover a whole side of a building. You can see it outside on a street wall or inside a big room like a library. People make it to tell a story or make a place look pretty. Sometimes many people paint it together. A mural can show trees, animals, or people dancing.
Murray River\n\nThe Murray River is a very long river in Australia. It starts high in snowy mountains and flows across the land. It is so long that it makes a border between two big parts of Australia. Many other rivers join it, and together they bring water to farms. People use the water to grow food. A long time ago, boats with big wheels carried people and things up and down the river. Today, you can see big trees with red wood growing near the water. The river ends at a big lake and then flows into the sea.
Muscat\n\nMuscat is a big city in a country called Oman. It sits next to the sea on the north east side of the country. It is very hot and dry there, with almost no rain. Long ago, many people fought to own the city because of its busy port. Today, people visit Muscat to see old buildings, play at the beach, and watch dolphins in the water.
Muscle\n\nA muscle is a soft part inside your body that helps you move. It is like a stretchy band that can get shorter and pull. You have many muscles all over your body, under your skin. It lets you run, jump, smile, and pick up your toys. Your heart is a special muscle that pumps blood all day long without you telling it to. When you eat good food and play outside, it grows bigger and stronger.
Muse d'Orsay\n\nThe Muse d'Orsay is a big art museum in Paris. It was once a train station a long time ago. Now it is full of pretty paintings and statues. You can see art made by people who painted with soft, light colors. Many of the pictures show flowers, water, and people dancing. It is a happy place to visit.
Museum\n\nA museum is a big building where people can go to see old and special things. It has many rooms with things like paintings, dinosaur bones, or old toys. You can find a museum in a city or a town. People go there to look and learn new things. Some museums let you touch or play with the things inside. A museum is a quiet place where you walk and look with your eyes.
Museum of Modern Art\n\nThe Museum of Modern Art is a big building full of paintings and art. It is in New York City, on a street called 53rd Street. Inside, you can see bright colors, funny shapes, and big pictures made by artists. One famous painting there has stars that swirl in the sky. Another has a can of soup painted on it. People from all over the world come to look at the art. It is a place where you can walk around and see many new things.
Mushroom\n\nA mushroom is a small living thing that grows from the ground. It has a soft top part called a cap and a long thin part called a stem. Under the cap, there are tiny lines that hold little seeds. You can find it in wet, dark places like woods or grass after rain. Some mushrooms are safe to eat and people cook them in food. But some are bad and can make you very sick if you eat them. Never pick a mushroom without a grown-up who knows which ones are safe.
Music\n\nMusic is sound that people make to feel happy or to dance. It has a beat you can tap your foot to and a tune you can hum. You hear it on the radio, on TV, and when people sing or play instruments like a piano or a drum. It can be fast and loud, or slow and soft. When you clap your hands or sing a song, you are making music too.
Music industry\n\nThe music industry is all the people and companies that make music and sell it. It includes singers, bands, and people who write songs. It also has places where music is recorded, like a big room with microphones. You can hear the music on the radio, on a phone, or at a concert. When you buy a song or listen to it, you help the music industry.
Music of Africa\n\nMusic of Africa is the songs and sounds people make in Africa. It is very old and comes from many different places on the big land. People use it to sing and dance for happy times and special days. It helps tell stories from long ago. Some music has drums that go boom-boom-boom. Other music has strings you pluck or shake. Today, some music mixes old African sounds with new pop sounds. You can hear it on the radio or see people dance to it on TV.
Music video\n\nA music video is a short movie made for a song. It shows the singer or band on a TV screen. They move their lips to the words and dance or act out a story. You can watch it on special TV channels or on a phone. It helps people see the song and not just hear it.
Musical\n\nA musical is a show where people sing, dance, and act to tell a story. It happens on a big stage with bright lights and colorful clothes. You can see it in a theater with your family. The songs help show how the people feel, like happy or sad. Some musicals have animals or funny characters that make you laugh.
Musical genre\n\nA musical genre is a way to group music that sounds alike. It is like a big family of songs that share the same feel. You can find it on the radio, on TV, or when people play instruments. Some kinds make you want to dance fast, and some are slow and soft for bedtime. A song with a happy beat and loud drums is one example you might hear at a party.
Musical instrument\n\nA musical instrument is a thing that makes music. It can be big or small. You hit it, blow into it, or shake it to make a sound. A drum is one kind. You hit it with sticks. A guitar is another kind. You move your fingers on its strings. Many people play instruments together in a big group called an orchestra. You can hear them in songs on the radio.
Musical notation\n\nMusical notation is a way to write down music so people can play it later. It uses special marks on five lines. You can find it in song books or on paper for piano lessons. It tells you how high or low to sing and how fast to go. When you see notes going up, the sound goes up too.
Musical theater\n\nMusical theater is a show on a stage where people tell a story. It uses acting, singing, and dancing. You can see it in a big room with many seats called a theater. The actors talk and sing songs to make the story fun. Some shows have lots of dancing too. A famous one is "The Sound of Music," where a family sings together.
Musician\n\nA musician is a person who makes music. He can play a tool that makes sounds, like a guitar or a drum. He can also sing songs with his voice. Some musicians write new songs for other people to play. You can see a musician on a stage, on TV, or at a school show. When many musicians play together, they are called a band.
Musicology\n\nMusicology is the study of music. It is like being a music detective. People who do this look at how songs are made, how they sound, and why we like them. They listen to old songs and new songs from all over the world. They write down what they learn so we can understand music better. You might see a musicology book in a library or a school.
Musk ox\n\nA musk ox is a big, furry animal that lives in very cold places. It has a thick, warm coat and long, curved horns on its head. It lives in the far north, where snow and ice cover the ground. It eats grass, leaves, and small flowers. When wolves come near, it stands in a circle with its friends to stay safe. It uses its strong head and horns to push away danger.
Muskrat\n\nA muskrat is a small animal that lives in water. It has brown fur, a long tail, and sharp teeth. You can find it in ponds, lakes, and wet places with tall grass. It is a great swimmer and can stay under the water for a long time. It builds a round house out of mud and plants to keep safe. The house has a door under the water so other animals cannot get in. A muskrat got its name because it can make a strong smell.
Muslim occasions\n\nMuslim occasions are special days and times that Muslim people celebrate. They happen all through the year. Some are happy feasts with food and family, like Eid ul-Fitr after a month of fasting. Others are quiet days for prayer and thinking, like Fridays when people go to the mosque. Many occasions remember stories about the prophet Muhammad. During Ramadan, grown-ups do not eat or drink while the sun is up. They learn to be patient and kind. Children might get gifts or see lights and decorations. These days bring people together to share and help others.
Must\n\nMust is something you have to do. It is a rule or a need. When your mom says you must brush your teeth, it means you cannot skip it. You must eat food to stay alive. You must look both ways before you cross the street. It is a strong word for things that are very important.
Mustache\n\nA mustache is hair that grows on the upper lip of some men. It can be thick and bushy or thin and small. Some men let it grow long, and some cut it short. Many men shave it off every day so it stays smooth. A mustache is just above the mouth, under the nose. Some animals, like a walrus, have long hair near their mouth that people also call a mustache.
Mustelid\n\nA mustelid is a furry animal that eats meat. It has a long, thin body and short legs. Some mustelids live in the water, like the otter, and some live in cold, snowy places. One kind, the ferret, is kept as a pet. It looks like a long, stretchy rat and is sometimes called a tube rat. Other mustelids are weasels and wolverines.
Mute\n\nMute means no sound comes out. It is when a person or a thing is very, very quiet. A TV can be mute if you press a button and the sound stops. Some people cannot talk, so they are mute. They may use their hands to show words instead. A mute button on a phone lets you listen without the other person hearing you.
Mutton\n\nMutton is meat from a grown-up sheep. It comes from a sheep that is older than one year. It has a strong, rich taste that some people like very much. You can cook it in a pot with carrots and potatoes to make a warm stew. In some places, people eat it for a big family meal. It is not as soft as meat from a baby sheep, but it has more flavor.
My\n\nMy is a word you use when something belongs to you. You say it to show that a thing is yours. For example, you might say "my toy" or "my book." It is a small word, but it helps people know what is special to you.
Myanmar\n\nMyanmar is a country in Asia. It has big rivers, green hills, and many trees. People live in busy cities and small villages. In the country, you can see golden temples that shine in the sun. Farmers grow rice in wet fields. Many people there speak a language called Burmese. It is next to other countries like China and India.
Myocardial Infarction\n\nMyocardial Infarction is a big name for a heart attack. It happens when blood cannot get to a part of the heart. The heart is a strong muscle inside your chest that pumps blood all over your body. When a small tube that brings blood to the heart gets blocked, that part of the heart gets hurt. It can make a person feel a very bad pain in the chest. Doctors help by giving medicine or doing a small fix to open the tube again. Eating healthy food and playing outside can help keep the heart happy.
Myself\n\nMyself means me. It is the word I use when I talk about who I am. I have a body with two arms, two legs, and a head. I can do things like run, jump, draw, and sing. I like some foods and not others. I feel happy when I play and sad when I fall down. Myself is special because there is only one me.
Myth\n\nA myth is a very old story. It tells about gods, heroes, or how the world began. People told these stories long ago before books. It is not a true story like in a news show. You might hear a myth about a big strong man or a magic animal. Many myths come from faraway lands.
Mythology\n\nMythology is a big box of old stories. It holds tales that people told long ago to explain the world. These stories talk about gods, heroes, and magic. You can find mythology in books, movies, and pictures. It helps us see how people long ago thought about the sun, the moon, and why things happen. For example, a story about a strong hero who brings fire to people is a myth.
Māori people\n\nMāori people are the first people who lived in New Zealand. They came to the islands a long, long time ago in big boats from warm islands far away. They have their own way of talking, called the Māori language. Today, many Māori people live in New Zealand, and they are a big part of the country. They share songs, dances, and stories with everyone.
Nail\n\nA nail is a small, thin piece of metal. It has a flat top and a very sharp point at the other end. You find nails in a toolbox or at a hardware store. People use a hammer to hit the flat top and push the sharp point into wood. This holds two pieces of wood together, like when building a chair or a birdhouse. A nail is strong and does not bend easily.
Nail (anatomy)\n\nA nail is a hard flat part at the end of your finger or toe. It is smooth and a little bit shiny. You have ten on your hands and ten on your feet. It grows all the time, so you need to cut it with small clippers. Cutting it does not hurt because it has no feeling inside. Some people paint it with pretty colors to make it look nice. It is made of the same stuff as your hair.
Nairobi\n\nNairobi is a big city in a country called Kenya. It has many tall buildings, busy roads, and lots of people. You can find big stores and markets there where people buy food and clothes. It is far from the sea, but a long time ago trains stopped there on a long trip. Many people move to Nairobi to find work, so the city keeps growing bigger.
Naive\n\nNaive means someone does not know much yet. It is like a very young child who thinks the world is always nice. A naive person may believe everything people say. They might not see when someone is tricking them. For example, a little kid who thinks a toy will grow if they plant it in the ground is being naive.
Naja\n\nNaja is a kind of snake that can make its neck wide and flat. It has a special mark on the back of its neck that looks like a pair of glasses. It lives in warm places far away, like Africa and Asia. When it feels scared, it lifts its head and spreads its neck to look big. It eats small animals like mice and birds. Some Naja snakes can even spray a stinging juice from their mouth to keep danger away.
Name\n\nA name is a word we use for a person, an animal, or a thing. It helps us know who is who. Your name is the word your family calls you, like "Emma" or "Liam." Every person has a name. Some people have a first name and a last name, like "Mia Smith." A pet also gets a name, like "Buddy" the dog. When you name something, you pick a word just for it.
Namibia\n\nNamibia is a country in Africa. It is next to the big blue ocean. It has a hot, dry desert with tall orange sand hills. Many wild animals live there, like big cats and elephants. People visit to see the animals and the big sand hills. Some people there play soccer and run fast races.
Nanjing\n\nNanjing is a big city in the east part of China. It has many, many people living there—more than nine million. Long ago, it was called the Southern Capital because the king moved his home to a northern city. Today, it has 11 smaller parts inside it, like pieces of a puzzle. It also has friends in other cities around the world, called sister cities. You might see tall buildings, busy streets, and a big river there.
Nanning\n\nNanning is a big city in China. It has many people living there. You can find it in the south part of the country. It is the most important city in a place called Guangxi. Many buses and cars go through its streets. People there speak Chinese and other local languages.
Nap\n\nA nap is a short sleep you take during the day. It happens when you lie down on a bed, a couch, or a soft mat. You close your eyes and rest your body for a little while. After a nap, you feel more awake and happy. Little kids often take a nap after lunch. Grown-ups sometimes nap when they are very tired.
Napkin\n\nA napkin is a small soft square of paper or cloth. It sits next to your plate at the table. You use it to wipe your mouth and hands while you eat. It can be plain white or have pretty colors and pictures. After a meal, you throw a paper napkin away, but a cloth napkin gets washed and used again.
Narcissus (genus)\n\nNarcissus is a bright spring flower. It has soft petals around a little cup in the middle. The petals are often yellow, but they can be white or light orange too. It grows from a round bulb under the ground, like an onion. You see it in gardens and parks when the cold winter ends. People like to pick it and put it in a vase at home.
Narrative\n\nA narrative is a story. It tells what happens, one thing after another. You find it in books, movies, and when someone tells you about their day. It helps you know who did what and why. When Mom reads a bedtime book, that book has a narrative.
Narrow\n\nNarrow means something is not wide. It is the opposite of wide. A narrow path is a path that is very thin, so only one person can walk on it at a time. A narrow street has houses close together on both sides. A narrow piece of paper is long but not very big from side to side. When you go through a narrow door, you have to turn your body a little bit.
Nation\n\nA nation is a big group of people who live together in one land. They often share the same flag, songs, and stories. You can find a nation on a map, with lines that show where it starts and ends. The people in a nation make rules to help everyone get along. A nation you might know is the one where you live.
National anthem\n\nA national anthem is a special song for a whole country. It is a song that people sing together to show love for their home. You hear it at big games, at school, or on a holiday. When it plays, people stand up tall and quiet. It helps everyone feel like one big family.
National Basketball Association\n\nThe National Basketball Association is a big group of basketball teams. It has 30 teams that play against each other. Most teams are in the United States, and one is in Canada. The players are very tall and jump high to put a ball through a hoop. Many people watch the games on TV or in big arenas. The best team at the end of the year wins a shiny trophy.
National Gallery of Art\n\nThe National Gallery of Art is a big building that holds many paintings and statues. It sits on a long, green park in Washington, D.C. Inside, you can walk through rooms full of colorful art. People come from all over to look at the pictures and shapes. Some art is very old, and some is new. It is a place where you can see art that tells stories without words.
National park\n\nA national park is a big piece of land that a country keeps safe. It has trees, rivers, mountains, and many animals. People can visit it to walk, camp, and see nature. The first one was made a long time ago in a place called Yellowstone. Today, many countries have their own national parks. They help keep the land and animals safe so everyone can enjoy them for a long, long time.
Nationalism\n\nNationalism is a big idea about loving your own country. It means people want their country to make its own choices and not be told what to do by other countries. They feel proud of their land, their flag, and the way people live there. Sometimes it helps small groups stay strong and keep their own ways. But it can also make people not like other countries.
Nationality\n\nNationality is the country where a person was born or belongs to. It is like being part of a big team called a country. You can have the same nationality as your mom and dad. People with the same nationality often speak the same language and celebrate the same holidays. For example, if you were born in Japan, your nationality is Japanese.
Native American\n\nNative Americans are the first people who lived in America. They were here long before anyone came from far away. They have many different groups, called tribes, and each tribe has its own way of talking and its own stories. Some of them lived in big houses made of wood or stone, and some moved around to find food. They grew corn, beans, and squash to eat. Today, many Native Americans live in cities and towns, and some live on special lands called reservations. They keep their old dances, songs, and art alive.
Natural\n\nNatural means something that is not made by people. It comes from the world around us. Trees, flowers, and rivers are natural. The sun, the moon, and the stars are natural too. When you see a bird flying or a rock on the ground, that is natural. It is not made in a factory or by a person.
Natural disaster\n\nA natural disaster is a big, scary event that comes from the Earth or the sky. It can be a flood, where water covers the land. It can be a shaking of the ground called an earthquake. It can be a big storm with strong wind and rain. A volcano can throw out hot, red rock and ash. These events can hurt people and break houses. They happen when the Earth changes, like when the weather gets too wild. Sometimes people make things worse by cutting down too many trees. If a big shake happens where no one lives, it is not a disaster. But if it happens in a town, it can be very bad.
Natural gas\n\nNatural gas is a kind of gas that comes from deep under the ground. It has no color and no smell, so people add a special smell to keep us safe. It burns with a pretty blue flame. People use it in stoves to cook food and in heaters to keep houses warm. Big buildings burn it to make the lights turn on. Some buses and cars can run on it too.
Natural History Museum\n\nA Natural History Museum is a big building full of old bones, rocks, and stuffed animals. It has many rooms with glass cases so you can look at the things inside. You can find it in a big city, and many families go there to learn. Inside, you can see a giant dinosaur skeleton standing tall. It also has shiny stones and colorful butterflies. People who work there study the old things and keep them safe.
Natural number\n\nA natural number is a number you use to count things. It is always a whole number, like 1, 2, or 3. You start counting with 1, because you cannot count zero apples. There is no biggest natural number—you can always add 1 to get the next one. You see natural numbers when you count your fingers, your toys, or the steps you take.
Natural resource\n\nA natural resource is something from nature that people can use. It can be air, water, wood, or sunshine. People find it in forests, rivers, and under the ground. It helps us live: we drink water, we breathe air, and we use wood to build houses. Some of it, like sunshine and wind, never runs out. Other kinds, like oil and coal, can run out if we use too much. We must take care of it so there is enough for later.
Natural Rubber\n\nNatural rubber is a stretchy, bouncy stuff that comes from a tree. It is soft and can be pulled long, then it snaps back. People find it inside the bark of a rubber tree, which grows in hot, rainy places. Workers cut the bark and catch the white, milky sap in a cup. They cook and shape the sap to make things like balls, boots, and gloves. You might see it in a bouncy ball or the soles of your sneakers.
Natural satellite\n\nA natural satellite is a small thing that moves around a big thing in space. It is also called a moon. It does not make its own light. We see it because the Sun's light bounces off it. Earth has one moon. It looks bright and round, then small and thin, then bright again. This takes about four weeks. Some other planets have many moons, and some have none.
Natural selection\n\nNatural selection is how animals and plants change slowly over a very long time. It happens when some living things have a small difference that helps them stay alive. The ones that live longer can have more babies. Those babies often get the same helpful difference. After many, many years, more and more of them have that helpful part. For example, some moths are light and some are dark. When trees got dark from smoke, birds could see the light moths easily and eat them. The dark moths hid better and had more babies. Soon, most moths were dark.
Nature\n\nNature is everything that is not made by people. It is the sky, the trees, the animals, the rivers, and the mountains. You can see it when you go to a park, a forest, or the beach. It gives us air to breathe, water to drink, and food to eat. Birds, bugs, flowers, and big old trees are all part of it. People should take care of it and keep it clean.
Navajo\n\nNavajo is a group of Native American people. They live in the southwestern part of the United States, in places like Arizona, New Mexico, and Utah. They have their own land called the Navajo Nation, which is very big. Many Navajo speak English, and some speak their own language called Diné. They are known for weaving beautiful blankets from sheep wool. A long time ago, some Navajo helped the U.S. Marines by using their language as a secret code during a big war.
Naval mine\n\nA naval mine is a big bomb that sits in the water. It is round or shaped like a ball with pointy parts on the outside. You find it in the sea or in big lakes. It waits under the water until a boat touches it, then it goes BOOM. People use it to stop bad boats from coming close. A long time ago, big countries put many of them in the water to keep their land safe.
Navigation\n\nNavigation is finding your way from one place to another. It helps you know where you are and how to get where you want to go. Long ago, people used the sun, stars, and birds to find their way. Today, many people use a phone or a small screen in a car to show the way. When you walk to your friend's house, you use navigation too.
Navy\n\nA navy is a group of people who protect their country on the water. They use big boats called ships. Some ships carry small, fast flying machines. Other ships can go under the water and hide. The people who work on these boats are called sailors. They wear special blue or white clothes. You might see a navy boat in a big harbor or in a movie about the sea.
Neanderthal\n\nA Neanderthal was a kind of person who lived a long, long time ago. It looked a lot like people today, but it had a bigger, stronger body and a thicker head. It lived in caves in cold places, like Europe. It made tools from stone and hunted big animals for food. It also painted pictures on cave walls. A Neanderthal is not alive anymore, but you can see its bones in a museum.
Near\n\nNear means something is close by. It is not far away. You can see it or touch it with just a few steps. When your toy is on the table right next to you, it is near. When your friend sits beside you at lunch, they are near. The opposite of near is far.
Neat\n\nNeat means clean and tidy. It is how a room looks when all the toys are put away. You can also be neat when your clothes have no spots and your hair is brushed. A neat desk has pencils in a cup and paper in a stack. When things are neat, it is easy to find what you need.
Nebula\n\nA nebula is a big cloud in space. It is made of tiny bits of dust and gas. You can find it far away among the stars. Some nebulae glow with pretty colors, and some are dark and hide the stars behind them. A nebula can be the place where new stars are born. It can also be the leftover cloud when an old star ends its life. If you look through a big telescope, you might see a picture of one that looks like a soft, fuzzy patch of light.
Neck\n\nA neck is the part of your body that holds up your head. It is between your head and your shoulders. It lets you turn your head to look left, right, up, and down. Inside it, there is a tube that carries food from your mouth to your tummy. You can feel it when you swallow. You can also feel the hard bumps in the front of it when you touch it with your fingers.
Necklace\n\nA necklace is a pretty thing you wear around your neck. It is often made of a thin chain or a soft string. It can have small shiny bits like beads, a stone, or a little charm hanging from it. People put it on to look nice for a party or a special day. You might see one on your mom or a teacher. Some necklaces are made of gold or silver and feel cool on your skin.
Need\n\nA need is something you must have to live or be happy. It is not just a wish, like wanting a new toy. Food, water, and a safe place to sleep are needs. When you are hungry, you need food. When you are cold, you need a warm coat. A need is very important, and you cannot go without it for long.
Needle\n\nA needle is a very thin, pointy tool. It is long and shiny, with a tiny hole at one end. You find it in a sewing box at home. People use it to pull thread through cloth to fix a rip or make clothes. A doctor also uses a needle to give medicine, but that kind is even smaller. You might see one when Mom or Dad sews a button back on a shirt.
Negative\n\nNegative means something is not there or not good. It is the opposite of positive. When you say "no," that is a negative answer. A sad face can show a negative feeling. In a test, a negative mark means you got something wrong.
Negative number\n\nA negative number is a number that is less than zero. It has a little minus sign in front of it, like -3. You can find it on a number line to the left of zero. It is used when you talk about things like very cold weather or when you owe someone a cookie. For example, if the temperature is -5 degrees, it is five steps below freezing.
Neighbor\n\nA neighbor is a person who lives near you. They might live in the house next door or down the street. You can wave and say hello when you see them outside. Sometimes they help you, like when they bring in your mail or watch your pet. You can be a good neighbor by being kind and quiet.
Neighborhood\n\nA neighborhood is a small part of a town or city where people live. It has houses, streets, and maybe a park or a store. You can walk around it and see your neighbors. Some neighborhoods are quiet, and some are busy. Your home is in a neighborhood, and you might play outside with friends who live nearby.
Neighbourhood\n\nA neighbourhood is a small part of a city or town where people live near each other. It has houses, streets, and maybe a park or a shop. You find it in every city and town all over the world. People in a neighbourhood often say hello and play together. It is a place where you know your neighbours. For example, your own street with your friends' houses is a neighbourhood.
Nelumbo\n\nNelumbo is a water plant with big, pretty flowers. It has wide leaves that float on top of the water. Its roots sit in the mud under the water. The flowers can be pink or yellow and smell sweet. People can eat the roots and seeds. Cows like to eat the leaves and flowers. You can see it in ponds and lakes.
Neolithic Revolution\n\nThe Neolithic Revolution was a big change a long, long time ago. It happened when people stopped moving around to find food. They learned to plant seeds and grow their own food. They also kept animals like goats and sheep near their homes. Because of this, people built the first villages and stayed in one place. It was the start of farming.
Nepal\n\nNepal is a country in Asia. It is a place with very tall mountains, like Mount Everest, the highest mountain on Earth. You find it between two bigger countries, India and China. Many people in Nepal grow food like rice and wheat on farms. A child might see a picture of Nepal with snowy peaks and colorful flags.
Nepali language\n\nNepali language is a way people talk and write. It is the main language in a country called Nepal. Many people in Nepal speak it at home and at school. It is also spoken in some parts of India and a few other places nearby. The words come from a very old language, and it is written with pretty, curly letters that look like the letters used for Hindi. In Nepal, children learn it in school until they are big.
Nephew\n\nA nephew is the boy child of your brother or sister. He is part of your family, like a cousin or an uncle. You might see him at family parties or when you visit his house. He can be a baby, a little kid, or a big kid. You can play with him, share toys, and read stories together. He calls you aunt or uncle.
Neptune\n\nNeptune is a big, blue planet far away in space. It is the last planet from the Sun. It looks like a soft blue ball because of a gas called methane. It has very strong winds that blow faster than any other planet. You cannot see it without a big telescope, but it is always moving around the Sun.
Nervous\n\nNervous is a feeling you get when you are not sure what will happen. It can make your tummy feel jumpy, like little butterflies inside. You might feel it before you go on a stage or meet new people. Your hands might shake a little, and your heart beats faster. It is okay to feel this way, and it goes away after a while.
Nervous system\n\nThe nervous system is the body's way of sending messages. It has two big parts: the brain and the long cord inside your back. The brain is like a boss that thinks and tells the body what to do. The cord is like a thick wire that carries messages up and down. Tiny cells called nerve cells zip the messages very fast. It helps you feel a soft touch, a hot stove, or a tickle. It also helps you run, jump, and blink your eyes.
Nest\n\nA nest is a small home that birds build. It is made of twigs, grass, and soft things like feathers. You can find it high up in a tree or on a roof. Birds use it to keep their eggs safe and warm. Baby birds stay in it until they can fly. Some nests are round like a little bowl.
Net\n\nA net is a thing made of string or rope with many holes. It looks like a big spider web. You can find a net at the beach, where people use it to catch fish. In a park, you might see a net on a tennis court or a soccer goal. A butterfly net is a small net on a stick that kids use to catch bugs gently.
Netball\n\nNetball is a game where two teams try to throw a ball through a hoop. It is like basketball, but you cannot bounce the ball or run with it. Each team has seven players, and each player stays in one part of the court. The court is a big rectangle with lines on the floor. One player throws the ball to a friend, and then another friend tries to shoot it into the hoop. You might see kids playing netball at school or in a park.
Netherlands\n\nThe Netherlands is a country in Europe. It is a small, flat land with many canals, windmills, and colorful tulip flowers. You can find it next to the sea, near Germany and Belgium. Many people ride bikes there every day. The people speak Dutch and live in cities like Amsterdam. Some parts are so low that big walls called dikes keep the water out.
Neuron\n\nA neuron is a tiny cell inside your body that sends messages. It has a round middle part and long, thin arms that reach out. You find it in your brain and all through your body. It helps you think, feel, and move by passing signals very fast. When you touch something hot, a neuron tells your hand to pull away quickly.
Neutron\n\nA neutron is a tiny piece inside the middle of an atom. It is very, very small, so you cannot see it with your eyes. It sits next to other tiny pieces called protons. Together, they make the center of an atom heavy. Neutrons help hold the atom together. They are in everything around you, like your chair, your water, and even you.
Never\n\nNever means not at any time. It is a word we use when something will not happen, not today, not tomorrow, not ever. You might say, "I will never eat a bug," because you do not want to do it. It is the opposite of always. When you promise to never do something, you mean you will not do it at all.
New\n\nNew means something that was not there before. It can be a toy you just got, a baby that was just born, or a day that just started. When something is new, it looks clean and fresh. You can find new things at a store, in your home, or outside. People feel happy when they see something new because it is a surprise. A new crayon is bright and sharp, not broken or dull.
New England\n\nNew England is a part of the United States. It is in the top right corner of the country. It has six smaller parts called states. They are Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island. Many trees grow there, and the leaves turn bright red, orange, and yellow in the fall. People visit to see the pretty leaves and to eat sweet maple syrup. Long ago, people from England came to live there, so they called it New England.
New Guinea\n\nNew Guinea is a very big island. It sits in the ocean north of Australia. It is the second biggest island in the whole world. It has tall green hills and thick forests. Many different people live there in small groups. They speak more than one thousand languages. That is more languages than any other place. Some animals live only on this island. Birds of paradise have bright, pretty feathers. Echidnas are animals with spikes that lay eggs. Wallabies look like small kangaroos and hop on their back legs. The island is a special home for nature.
New Orleans\n\nNew Orleans is a big city in the United States. It sits by a wide river called the Mississippi. The land is very low and flat, so people built tall walls to keep water out. A long time ago, a big storm named Katrina brought too much water, and many houses got wet. Today, people fix the houses and help each other. In New Orleans, you can hear happy music, see bright parades, and eat yummy food like rice with spices.
New Religious Movement\n\nA new religious movement is a group of people who believe in something together. It is a new way of thinking about big questions, like where we come from or what happens after we die. You might hear about it from a friend or see a special building where they meet. People in it often read a special book, sing songs, or help others. It is like a new club for the heart and mind.
New Testament\n\nThe New Testament is a special book for Christians. It tells the story of a man named Jesus and his friends. Inside, there are many smaller books, like letters and stories. People read it in church or at home to learn about being kind and good. It is a very old book, written long ago in a different language.
New World monkey\n\nA New World monkey is a kind of monkey that lives in warm forests in Central and South America. It has a flat nose with holes that point to the side. Many of them have long tails that can grab branches like a hand. They swing and jump high in the trees to find fruit and leaves to eat. Some of them have babies two at a time, and the daddy monkey helps take care of the little ones. You might see one in a picture book about jungle animals.
New World vulture\n\nA New World vulture is a big bird that lives in the Americas. It has dark feathers, a bald head, and a sharp, hooked beak. It flies high in the sky looking for dead animals to eat. It helps keep the land clean by eating things that are no longer alive. The two biggest kinds are called condors. You might see one at a zoo or in a nature show.
New Year\n\nNew Year is a special day when one year ends and a new year starts. It happens on the last night of December and the first day of January. People stay up late to see the clock hit twelve. They cheer, hug, and say happy words. Bright fireworks light up the sky with many colors. Some people make a wish for the new year. It feels like a fresh start for everyone.
New York (state)\n\nNew York is a big place in the United States, like a giant neighborhood with many people. It has tall mountains, green forests, and long rivers. You can find it in the northeast part of the country, next to a big lake and Canada. Many people live in a huge city also called New York, with tall buildings and busy streets. Up north, there are smaller cities like Albany, where the leaders work. Long ago, people built a water road called a canal to help boats carry things. Now, families visit to see the big city lights or play in the parks.
New York City\n\nNew York City is a very big city with many people. It has five parts called boroughs. You can see tall buildings, busy streets, and a big green lady called the Statue of Liberty. Many people from all over the world live there and speak different languages. You can ride a train under the ground to go places. It is a city where people work, play, and visit from far away.
New York City Subway\n\nThe New York City Subway is a big train that runs under and above the ground in New York City. It has many train cars joined together, and it stops at lots of stations. You can find it in four parts of the city: Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and the Bronx. It takes people to work, school, and fun places every day and night. It never closes, so you can ride it at any time. To get on, you pay with a card or tap your phone at the gate. Many people use it because it is a fast way to move around the big city.
New Zealand\n\nNew Zealand is a country made of two big islands and many small ones. It is far away in the big blue ocean. The land has green hills, tall mountains, and sandy beaches. Many people live in cities like Auckland and Wellington. A special bird called the kiwi lives there and cannot fly. The kiwi is the country's favorite bird. People in New Zealand speak English and sometimes another language called Maori. They like to play outside and be happy.
Newfoundland\n\nNewfoundland is a big island in the ocean near Canada. It has rocky shores, green hills, and many small towns. Many people there speak English, and some speak French. Long ago, people came from far away to fish in the water around it. Today, people still fish, but not as much. They also cut down trees and dig for rocks in the ground. You can ride a big boat called a ferry to get there.
News\n\nNews is a way people share what is happening right now. It can be on paper, like a big sheet with words and pictures. You can also see it on a TV or hear it on a radio. It tells about many things, like weather, sports, or fun events. A person who shares the news is called a newsman.
Newspaper\n\nA newspaper is a big paper that tells people about things that happen. It comes out every day or every week. You can find it at a store or it can come to your house. It has words and pictures about many things like sports, the weather, and funny drawings. People read it to learn what is new in the world. After you read it, you can put it in a blue box so it can be made into new paper.
Newt\n\nA newt is a small animal that lives both in water and on land. It has a long body, four short legs, and a tail. Its skin is smooth and often bright orange or red on the belly. You can find it near ponds and wet places in North America, Europe, and parts of Asia. It starts life as a tiny baby in the water, then grows legs and walks on land for a while. Later, it goes back to the water to have babies. Some newts have poison in their skin to keep other animals from eating them. If you see one, look but do not touch, and always wash your hands after.
Newton\n\nNewton was a person who thought a lot about how things move. He lived a long time ago. He saw an apple fall from a tree and wondered why it fell down, not up. He came up with rules that explain why things fall, why balls roll, and why the moon goes around the Earth. Many people learn about his ideas in school.
Newton's laws of motion\n\nNewton's laws of motion are three big ideas about how things move. The first idea says a thing sitting still will stay still until a push or pull makes it move. A thing that is moving will keep moving the same way until a push or pull stops it or turns it. The second idea says a big push makes a thing speed up fast, and a heavy thing needs a bigger push to speed up. The third idea says when you push something, it pushes you back just as hard. You can see this when you kick a ball and your foot feels a push back. These ideas help us know why a ball rolls, a car goes, and a fish swims.
Next\n\nNext is a word that means the one that comes after. When you are in a line, the person behind you is next. At story time, the next page is the one you turn to. You can say "I am next" when it is your turn.
Niagara Falls\n\nNiagara Falls is a big, loud waterfall. It is made of three waterfalls that fall down a tall rock wall. It sits on the line between two countries: the United States and Canada. The water comes from big lakes and flows very fast. Many people come to see it because it is so big and pretty. At night, colored lights shine on the water. The falling water also helps make power for lights and homes.
Nicaragua\n\nNicaragua is a country in the middle part of the Americas. It has warm weather, big green forests, and tall mountains that can spit fire. On one side of it is the big blue ocean, and on the other side is a warm sea. Many people there speak Spanish. They love to play a game with a bat and a ball called baseball. Some people also make music and dance to happy songs. Many visitors come to see the animals and the pretty land.
Nice\n\nNice is a big town by the sea in a country called France. It has warm, sunny summers and soft, cool winters. Many people visit it to swim at the beach and walk by the water. Long ago, a queen from a faraway land came to stay because she liked the warm sun. The town has a long path by the sea that was made for visitors. You can eat yummy food there, like a fish soup and a salad with eggs and tuna. Some people in Nice speak a special old way of talking that sounds a little like the words from a nearby country.
Nicely\n\nNicely is a way of doing things that makes people feel good. It means you are kind, gentle, and careful with your words and hands. When you share a toy with a friend, you are playing nicely. You can also speak nicely by saying please and thank you. It helps everyone feel happy and safe.
Niece\n\nA niece is the daughter of your brother or your sister. She is part of your family. You might see her at family parties or when you visit her house. She can be a baby, a little girl, or a grown-up. You can play with her, give her hugs, and watch her grow bigger. She calls you aunt or uncle.
Niger\n\nNiger is a big country in Africa. It has no ocean next to it, so it is all land. Much of it is hot and dry with lots of sand. A long river called the Niger River runs through it. People there grow food like onions and peanuts. Some animals like giraffes live there too.
Niger River\n\nThe Niger River is a very long river in Africa. It looks like a big smile or a boomerang on a map. It flows through many countries, like Guinea, Mali, and Nigeria. People use it for fishing and farming. Every year, the water rises and covers the land, which makes the soil good for growing food. At the end, it spreads out into many small streams and meets the big ocean.
Nigeria\n\nNigeria is a big country in Africa. It has many people, more than any other country in Africa. It has green forests, wide grasslands, and a long coast next to the ocean. The weather is very hot because it is close to the middle of the Earth. Many people in Nigeria play football, and their team is called the Super Eagles. They have won big prizes for football. In Nigeria, people cook food with lots of spices, and the food can be very hot. Some people live in the north and some in the south, and they have different ways of praying and living. The biggest city is Lagos, where many people work and live.
Night\n\nNight is the time when the sky is dark. It happens when the Sun is not in the sky. You can see the Moon and many tiny stars at night. People and animals sleep at night. Some animals, like owls, wake up and look for food. Night feels cool and quiet. In the morning, the Sun comes back and night goes away.
Nightingale\n\nA nightingale is a small brown bird. It is a little bigger than a robin. It has a plain brown back and a tail with a bit of red. It lives in woods and bushes in Europe and parts of Asia. When it gets cold, it flies far away to Africa to stay warm. It sings a very loud and pretty song with many whistles and trills. It sings at night when most other birds are quiet. Only the boy bird sings at night to find a friend. People have loved its song for a very long time.
Nightjar\n\nA nightjar is a bird that flies at night. It has soft, brown and gray feathers that look like tree bark. It hides on the ground or on a tree branch during the day. It eats bugs like moths and beetles. You might see one if you go camping and look up at the sky when the sun goes down.
Nikola Tesla\n\nNikola Tesla was a man who thought of new ways to use electricity. He made a motor that spins with a special kind of power. He also dreamed of sending power through the air without wires. You can see his work in things like radios and remote controls. He was very smart and had many big ideas.
Nile\n\nThe Nile is a very long river in Africa. It is the longest river on Earth. It starts from a big lake and flows through many countries. It ends at a big sea in the north. Many people live near it and use its water to drink and to grow food. Boats carry things on it. Long ago, people built big stone pyramids close to it. Animals like crocodiles and fish live in it.
Nine\n\nNine is a number. It comes after eight and before ten. You can count nine fingers if you hide one thumb. It looks like a circle on a stick. You see it on clocks, in books, and on birthday cakes.
Nineteen\n\nNineteen is a number. It comes after eighteen and before twenty. It is one more than eighteen and one less than twenty. You can count nineteen toys, nineteen crayons, or nineteen steps. If you are nineteen years old, you are almost a grown-up.
Nineveh\n\nNineveh was a very old city a long, long time ago. It had a big, strong wall made of stone and mud bricks all around it. The wall had tall towers and many big gates for people to go in and out. You can still see some old broken parts of it near a city called Mosul. A long time ago, it was the most important city for a group of people called the Assyrians.
Ninja\n\nA ninja is a person from long ago in Japan who moved quietly and hid well. They wore dark blue or brown clothes to blend into the night. Ninja were hired to watch enemies and get secrets. They used short swords, throwing knives, and claws on their hands and feet. A ninja could climb walls and sneak into places without being seen. Today, you might see a ninja in a cartoon or a movie, dressed all in black and doing flips.
Nitrogen\n\nNitrogen is a kind of gas that has no color and no smell. It is all around us in the air. Most of the air we breathe is nitrogen. It is not the same as the air we need to live, but it is safe. People use it to keep food like chips fresh inside the bag. It can also get very cold and turn into a liquid that freezes things.
No\n\nNo is a small word we use when we do not want something. It is a way to say "I do not agree" or "stop." You hear it at home when a grown-up says "no" to keep you safe, like "no touching the hot stove." You also say it when a friend asks for a toy you are playing with and you are not ready to share. It is a strong word that helps people know what you like and what you do not like.
Noah\n\nNoah is a man from a very old story. He lived a long, long time ago. In the story, God told him to build a big boat called an ark. He put his family and many animals on the boat. Then a big flood came and covered the land. After the water went away, he saw a rainbow in the sky. The rainbow was a sign that the flood would not happen again.
Nobel Prize\n\nA Nobel Prize is a very special award. It is a shiny gold medal, a paper called a diploma, and a big bag of money. People get it for doing great things in science, writing, or helping peace in the world. A man named Alfred Nobel started it a long time ago. Every year, the winners are picked by groups of smart people. They get the prize in a big party in a faraway city called Stockholm. Some people have won it more than once, and some families have many winners. It is one of the biggest honors a person can get.
Nobility\n\nNobility is a group of people who were very important long ago. They helped a king or queen rule the land. A noble person often lived in a big house and owned lots of land. Some were rich, but some were not. Today, in most places, being noble does not give special power, but in a few countries they still have old titles.
Noble\n\nNoble means very good and kind. A noble person helps others and does the right thing. They share toys, say sorry when they make a mistake, and take care of friends. A king or queen in a story is often noble. You can be noble too when you are brave and honest.
Nobody\n\nNobody means not one person. It is a word we use when there are zero people in a place. You might say "nobody is in the room" when the room is empty. It is the opposite of "everybody." If you look around and see no friends, you can say "nobody is here."
Nod\n\nA nod is when you move your head up and down. It is a way to say yes without using words. You can see someone nod when they agree with you. People also nod to say hello or show they are listening. A nod is quick and easy, and even little kids can do it.
Node\n\nA node is a small bump or a place where things meet. It can be a little round spot on a plant stem where a leaf grows. It can also be a point where lines cross, like in a drawing or a net. In a computer, it is a box that helps send messages to other boxes. You can find nodes in many places, like on a tree branch or in a game of connect-the-dots.
Noh\n\nNoh is a kind of play from Japan. It has slow dancing, music, and singing. The people in the play wear special masks on their faces. They move in a careful, quiet way. You can see it on a big wooden stage. Long ago, only men acted in it, even when the story had a girl or a woman. Some plays tell old tales about brave heroes or sad spirits.
Noise\n\nNoise is a sound you do not want to hear. It can be loud and hurt your ears. You find it in many places, like a busy street with cars or a room with a loud TV. Too much noise can make it hard to sleep or talk. A soft hum from a fan can be a noise that helps some people fall asleep.
Noisy\n\nNoisy means something makes a lot of sound. It can be a loud sound that hurts your ears or just many sounds all at once. A busy street with cars and trucks is noisy. A room full of children playing and laughing is noisy too. When a dog barks a lot, it is being noisy. Sometimes noisy things make it hard to hear your friend talk.
Nomad\n\nA nomad is a person who moves from place to place. They do not stay in one house or one town. Some nomads move to find fresh grass for their animals, like cows or sheep. They may live in a tent that is easy to pack up. Other nomads travel in wagons to sell things or make things for people. A long time ago, some nomads rode horses and were very good at fighting while moving.
Non\n\nNon means not or no. It is a small word you put in front of another word to flip its meaning. If something is non-sticky, it does not stick. If a toy is non-breakable, it will not break. You see it on signs like non-stop or non-toxic. It helps you know when something is the opposite.
Non Fiction\n\nNon fiction is a kind of book or story. It tells about real people, real places, and real things that happen. It is not made up like a fairy tale. You can find non fiction books at the library or at school. They have pictures and words that teach you about the world. A book about dogs or a book about how cars work is non fiction. It helps you learn new facts.
Non-fiction\n\nNon-fiction is writing about real things. It tells true stories or facts. You can find it in books, pictures, and movies. It helps you learn about the world. A book about animals is non-fiction.
Non-governmental organization\n\nA non-governmental organization is a group of people who work together to help others. It is not part of the government. It does not try to make money for itself. Instead, it helps people who are poor or need food, water, or a safe place to live. You might see one giving out blankets after a big storm or teaching children in a far-away village. Some are very big and work in many countries.
None\n\nNone means zero or nothing at all. It is a word you use when there is not even one. If you have no cookies left, you have none. It can also mean you do not want something, like when you say "none for me, please."
Nonprofit organization\n\nA nonprofit organization is a group of people who work together to help others. It does not keep the money it makes for itself. Instead, it uses the money to do good things. You can find it in many places, like a food bank that gives food to hungry people or a shelter that gives a warm bed to those who need one. Some help animals, like saving hurt dogs and cats. Others help keep parks clean. People who work there may get paid, but many are helpers who give their time for free. A big one you might know is the group that runs Wikipedia, where you can learn about many things.
Nonverbal communication\n\nNonverbal communication is talking without words. It uses your face, hands, and body to show how you feel. You can see it when someone smiles, waves, or gives a hug. It also uses sounds like a happy laugh or a sad sigh. Even clothes and dancing are ways to send a message without speaking. When you point at a toy you want, that is nonverbal communication.
Noodle\n\nA noodle is a long, thin piece of food. It is soft and can be white or yellow. You find it in a bowl of soup or on a plate with sauce. People boil it in hot water to make it soft, then eat it with a fork or chopsticks. Sometimes it is fried in a pan with vegetables and meat. You may have eaten noodle soup when you were sick, because it is warm and easy to eat.
Noon\n\nNoon is the middle of the day. It is when the sun is highest in the sky. At noon, the light is very bright and shadows are short. People often eat lunch around this time. You can see noon when the clock says 12:00 in the daytime.
Normal\n\nNormal means something is like most other things. It is not strange or different. When you see a red apple, that is normal because many apples are red. A normal day is a day when nothing big or new happens. It feels calm and easy.
Norse mythology\n\nNorse mythology is a set of old stories from people who lived in the north a long time ago. It tells about many gods, giants, and other magical beings. The stories say the world has nine big lands. One land is for gods, one is for people, and one is a cold, dark place for the dead. A rainbow bridge connects some of these lands. The most famous god is Thor, who has a big hammer and makes thunder. Another god is Odin, who is very wise and has two ravens. These stories were told out loud for many years before they were written down. Today, you can see parts of these stories in movies, books, and even the names of days like Thursday, which is named after Thor.
North\n\nNorth is a direction. It points toward the top of a map or a globe. When you face the sunrise, north is to your left. It is the way to cold places with snow and ice. A compass needle shows you where north is.
North Africa\n\nNorth Africa is the top part of the big land called Africa. It is mostly a very hot, dry place with lots of sand called a desert. In the west, there are tall hills called mountains where it is not so dry. Many people there speak Arabic and follow a way of life called Islam. They live in busy cities and small towns near water. A long, long time ago, people built giant stone shapes called pyramids there, and you can still see them today.
North America\n\nNorth America is a big piece of land on Earth. It has three big countries: Canada, the United States, and Mexico. It also has many small islands with warm weather. You can find it between two very big oceans. Many people live there, and they speak different languages like English and Spanish.
North Island\n\nNorth Island is a big piece of land in the country of New Zealand. It is one of two main islands, and it is the smaller one. It has green hills, long beaches, and some big cities. Many people live on it, more than on the other island. The biggest city is Auckland, and the capital city, Wellington, is at the bottom end. You can see it on a map next to a bigger island called the South Island.
North Korea\n\nNorth Korea is a country in the east part of Asia. It is on the top half of a piece of land shaped like a finger. It has a big city called Pyongyang where many people live. The leader is a man named Kim Jong-un. He makes all the rules. People there cannot say what they want or go where they want. The country is very poor and does not have much food. It has a big wall and a line that keeps it apart from South Korea. Soldiers stand there and watch each other. A long time ago, there was a war between the two parts, and they never made peace.
North Macedonia\n\nNorth Macedonia is a country in Europe. It has tall mountains and big blue lakes. The capital city is Skopje, where many people live. People there speak a language called Macedonian. They use money called the denar. Long ago, many different empires ruled the land. Now it is its own country. It is next to Greece, Bulgaria, Serbia, and Albania.
North Pole\n\nThe North Pole is the very top of our Earth. It is a cold, icy place in the middle of a big ocean. A thick sheet of ice covers the water all year. The sun does not shine there for many months, so it stays very dark and cold. A special star called the North Star sits right above it in the sky. Long ago, people used that star to find their way home.
North Sea\n\nThe North Sea is a big body of water in Europe. It is part of the ocean and sits between many countries like England, Norway, and Germany. It is not very deep, and in some places the water is only as tall as a house. Many ships cross it every day, carrying things from one land to another. Big rivers like the Thames and the Rhine pour water into it. People catch fish there, and under the sea floor there is oil and gas. Long ago, ice covered this place, but it melted and left the sea behind.
Northeast India\n\nNortheast India is a part of India far in the east. It has seven smaller parts called states. They are like seven sisters holding hands. It is full of green hills, big forests, and rivers. Many different groups of people live there, each with their own songs and dances. You can see tea gardens and animals like the one-horned rhino. It is a place where the sun rises first in India.
Northern Ireland\n\nNorthern Ireland is a small part of the United Kingdom. It is on an island called Ireland. Its biggest city is Belfast. Many people live there. They speak English. Some also speak Irish or Ulster Scots. People play football and rugby. They have their own football team. The land is green with hills and farms. A long time ago, there was fighting, but now there is peace.
Northern pike\n\nA northern pike is a big fish that lives in cold, fresh water. It has a long, thin body with light spots on a dark back. It has a big mouth with many sharp teeth. You can find it in lakes and rivers where there are weeds and logs. It waits very still and then moves fast to catch other fish to eat. Some people call it a water wolf because it is a strong hunter.
Norway\n\nNorway is a country far up in the north of Europe. It has tall mountains, deep blue water called fjords, and lots of snow in winter. Many people in Norway live near the sea. They catch fish from the ocean and sell it to other places. In the sky at night, you can sometimes see pretty green and pink lights. Those lights are called the Northern Lights.
Norwegian Sea\n\nThe Norwegian Sea is a big body of water near Norway. It is part of the big ocean. The water is deep and blue. Many fish live there, like herring and cod. Big whales swim in it too. People catch fish from boats on the sea. The water stays warm, so it does not freeze in winter.
Nose\n\nA nose is a body part on your face. It lets you smell things and helps you breathe. It has two small holes that take in air. Inside, it cleans the air and makes it warm and wet before the air goes into your body. A dog has a nose that smells much better than a person's nose. When you have a cold, your nose can get stuffy and it is hard to breathe.
Nostril\n\nA nostril is one of the two small holes at the end of your nose. It lets air go in and out when you breathe. Inside, tiny hairs catch dust so it does not go into your body. You can see nostrils on every person and on many animals too. When you have a cold, your nostrils can feel stuffy or runny.
Not\n\nNot is a small word we use to say no. It turns a yes into a no. You hear it in sentences like "I am not sleepy" or "That is not my toy." It helps us tell what is not true or what we do not want. You can use it when you shake your head and say no.
Note\n\nA note is a short piece of writing. It can be a few words or a sentence on a small paper. People write notes to remember things, like a shopping list or a phone number. You might see a note stuck on the fridge at home. A teacher can write a note to a parent about a school trip. A note helps you not forget something important.
Notebook\n\nA notebook is a small book with empty pages. It has a cover on the front and back to keep the pages safe. You can find it in a school bag or on a desk. People use it to write words, draw pictures, or stick fun stickers. A child might use one to practice letters or draw a rainbow.
Nothing\n\nNothing means there is not a single thing. It is like an empty box with no toys inside. You can find it when you look for something and it is not there. When you ask for more cookies and the jar is empty, that is nothing. It is what you hear when a room is very quiet and no one is talking.
Notre-Dame de Paris\n\nNotre-Dame de Paris is a very old, big church in the city of Paris. It sits on a small island in a river. It has tall walls, two big round windows made of colored glass, and many stone shapes on the outside. People from all over the world come to see it and take pictures. A long time ago, a man wrote a famous story about a man who lived there. In 2019, a big fire hurt the church, but workers are fixing it so it can be seen again.
Noun\n\nA noun is a word that names a person, a place, or a thing. It can be something you can see, like a ball or a dog. You find nouns in every sentence when you talk or read. It tells you who or what the story is about. For example, 'cat,' 'mom,' and 'park' are all nouns.
Novel\n\nA novel is a book that tells one long made-up story. It has many pages, sometimes more than a hundred. You can find it in a library or on a shelf at home. People read it for fun, a little bit each night before bed. Some novels are about brave pirates, and some are about silly boys who get into trouble.
November\n\nNovember is a month of the year. It comes after October and before December. In many places, the air gets colder and leaves fall from trees. People celebrate Thanksgiving in November with family and a big meal. It has 30 days.
Now\n\nNow is the time that is happening right this second. It is not yesterday and not tomorrow. You can feel it when you clap your hands or take a breath. When you say hello to a friend, you say it now. It moves very fast, and then it becomes the past.
Nuclear\n\nNuclear is about the tiny center of an atom. It is a very small part that you cannot see with your eyes. Inside it, there is a lot of power. People use this power to make electricity in big buildings called power plants. The power can also be used in bombs, but that is very dangerous. Nuclear power makes no smoke, so it keeps the air clean.
Nuclear family\n\nA nuclear family is a small family. It has a mom, a dad, and their kids. Some people also count kids who are not from both parents, but not everyone agrees. It is one part of a bigger family with grandparents, aunts, and uncles. You can see this kind of family in many houses on your street.
Nuclear power\n\nNuclear power is a way to make electricity. It uses tiny bits called atoms. Inside a big machine, atoms are split apart. This makes a lot of heat. The heat turns water into steam. The steam spins a big wheel that makes electricity. The electricity goes to homes and lights up rooms. Some people worry about the leftover stuff, which can be dangerous. It must be kept safe in a special place.
Nude\n\nNude means not wearing any clothes. It is how a person looks when they take a bath or get ready for bed. You see your own body this way every day. In art, like paintings or statues, people are sometimes shown nude. It is a normal part of life, but we usually wear clothes when we are with others.
Nudge\n\nA nudge is a soft, gentle push. It is a small touch that helps someone move a little bit or pay attention. You might give a friend a nudge with your elbow when you want to show them something funny. A mom might nudge her child to wake them up in the morning. It is not a hard push—it is light and kind.
Number\n\nA number tells you how many of something there are. It can be a word like "three" or a mark like "3". You see numbers on clocks, on doors, and on birthday cards. People use numbers to count toys, to share cookies, and to know how old they are. When you hold up two fingers, you show the number two.
Number Theory\n\nNumber theory is a part of math. It is all about whole numbers like 1, 2, and 3. It looks at how numbers can be put together or taken apart. For example, it asks if a number can be split into smaller numbers that multiply to make it. It also finds patterns, like even numbers always end with 0, 2, 4, 6, or 8. People use it to make secret codes for computers.
Numeral\n\nA numeral is a mark that stands for a number. It can be a shape like 1, 2, or 3. You see numerals on clocks, in books, and on your toys. People use numerals to count things, like how many cookies are on a plate. When you hold up two fingers, that is like the numeral 2.
Numerical digit\n\nA numerical digit is a single number mark. It is one of the ten little shapes we use to write all numbers: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. You see it on clocks, in books, and on your toys. When you put two of them together, like 5 and 6, you get a bigger number like 56. It helps us count things, like how many cookies are on a plate.
Nurse\n\nA nurse is a person who helps sick people feel better. She wears a soft uniform and sometimes a cap. You can see her in a hospital, a doctor's office, or even at your home. She gives you medicine, checks your body, and talks to you when you are scared. When you fall and hurt your knee, a nurse may clean the cut and put on a bandage. She works with doctors to keep everyone healthy and strong.
Nurse shark\n\nA nurse shark is a big fish that lives in warm ocean water. It has a flat body, two round fins on its back, and a long tail. It rests on the sandy bottom or in rocky holes during the day. At night, it swims slowly to find food like crabs, clams, and small fish. It is not mean to people and only bites if someone bothers it. You might see one in a big tank at the aquarium, lying very still with other nurse sharks.
Nursery\n\nA nursery is a room for a baby. It has a small bed called a crib, soft blankets, and toys. You find it in a house, near the parents' room. People use it to keep the baby safe while it sleeps or plays. A nursery often has gentle colors and a rocking chair.
Nut\n\nA nut is a small, hard food that grows on trees. It has a tough shell on the outside and a soft part inside that you can eat. You can find nuts in many places, like in a bowl at home or in a park under a tree. People eat nuts as a snack, and they can also be put in cookies or bread. Some nuts are peanuts, almonds, and walnuts. Squirrels like to hide nuts in the ground to save them for later.
Nut (fruit)\n\nA nut is a small, hard fruit that grows on some trees and bushes. It has a tough shell on the outside and a soft part inside that you can eat. You can find nuts in the woods, at the store, or in your kitchen. People eat nuts as a snack or put them in cookies and bread. Squirrels love to gather nuts and hide them for winter. A peanut is not a true nut, but we call it one anyway.
Nut (hardware)\n\nA nut is a small metal ring with a hole in the middle. It has six flat sides so a tool can hold it tight. You always use it with a long metal stick called a bolt. The bolt goes through the hole, and the nut twists on to hold things together. You can see nuts and bolts on bikes, chairs, and playground swings. They keep parts from falling apart.
Nutmeg\n\nNutmeg is a brown seed that comes from a tree. It is hard and round, and people grind it into a powder. The powder smells warm and sweet. You can find it in the kitchen, where grown-ups use it to add flavor to cookies, cakes, and warm drinks. It tastes a little spicy and a little sweet. Some people also put a tiny bit on top of eggnog during winter holidays.
Nutrition\n\nNutrition is the food your body needs to grow and stay strong. It gives you energy to run, play, and think. You get it from the things you eat and drink every day. Good foods like fruits, vegetables, milk, and meat have lots of it. Some foods like candy and chips have very little. When you eat a mix of good foods, your body gets what it needs to work well.
Nylon\n\nNylon is a kind of thread that people make in big buildings. It is very strong and does not get wet easily. It feels smooth and a little shiny. You can find it in many things you see every day. It is used to make clothes, socks, and swimsuits. It is also in toothbrushes, backpacks, and ropes. A parachute that helps a person float down from the sky is often made of it. Nylon is not from a plant or an animal; it is made by mixing special liquids together.
O'clock\n\nO'clock is a way to say what time it is. It tells us the exact hour on a clock. When the long hand points straight up to the 12, we say it is something o'clock. You see it on clocks at home, at school, or on a watch. It helps us know when to eat, play, or go to bed.
Oak\n\nAn oak is a big, strong tree. It has a thick brown trunk and many branches. Its leaves are green and can be round or pointy at the edges. You can find it in parks, forests, and sometimes in big yards. It gives shade on hot days. In fall, it drops small nuts called acorns. Squirrels love to eat them. Many birds and bugs live in an oak tree. Its wood is very hard and was used to make ships and tables long ago.
Oarfish\n\nAn oarfish is a very long, flat fish that lives deep in the ocean. It has a thin, ribbon-like body and a bright red fin on its back. You almost never see it because it stays far from the shore and far from the bottom. When it gets sick, it floats up to the top of the water. Some people long ago thought it looked like a sea monster. Its name comes from its shape, which is long like a boat oar.
Oasis\n\nAn oasis is a green spot in a hot, dry desert. It has water that comes up from under the ground. Around the water, trees and plants can grow. Animals like birds and bugs live there to drink and stay cool. People who travel across the desert stop at an oasis to get water and rest. Long ago, traders with camels used oases to find their way and fill up on food and drink.
Oat\n\nOat is a tiny grain that grows on a plant. It looks like a small, pale seed with a thin, papery coat. Farmers grow it in fields where the weather is cool and wet. People cook it with water or milk to make a warm, soft breakfast called oatmeal. It can also be baked into cookies or bread. Horses and cows eat it too, and their beds are sometimes made from the dry stems.
Oatmeal\n\nOatmeal is a warm, soft food you eat for breakfast. It looks like a thick, creamy mush and can be white or light brown. You find it in a bowl on the kitchen table. People cook it with water or milk and often add sweet things like honey or fruit. It tastes mild and fills your tummy up. Some kids like to put banana slices or a little cinnamon on top.
Obesity\n\nObesity is when a person is very heavy for their height. It means the body has too much fat. A doctor can check it by looking at weight and height together. It can make a person feel tired or sick. Eating too much food and not moving enough can cause it. Some people get it from their family. It is something many people around the world have.
Object\n\nAn object is a thing you can see or touch. It can be big like a car or small like a button. You find objects all around you, like in your room or at the park. People use objects every day, like a spoon for eating or a ball for playing. A toy is an object you might hold in your hand.
Oboe\n\nAn oboe is a long, thin tube that makes music. It is made of wood and has a small mouthpiece with two tiny reeds that shake when you blow air in. You can find it in a big group of players called an orchestra. A person who plays it blows air and moves their fingers over holes and keys to make different sounds. The sound is high and clear, like a duck singing. Before a show, the main oboe player plays one long note so all the other players can make their instruments match.
Observable universe\n\nThe observable universe is all the space we can see from Earth. It is like a giant ball with us in the middle. It has many stars, planets, and galaxies. We see it with big telescopes. Light from far away takes a very long time to reach us, so we see things as they were long ago.
Observation\n\nObservation is looking and listening carefully to learn about things. It uses your eyes, ears, nose, hands, and sometimes your mouth. You can do it anywhere, like watching a bug on a leaf or listening to a bird sing. When you watch closely, you notice small details, like the color of the bug or how it moves. Scientists use observation to find out new things about the world. You can do it too, just by paying close attention.
Observatory\n\nAn observatory is a special building for looking at the sky. It has a big tool called a telescope that makes far-away things look close. You find it on top of a tall hill or a mountain, where the air is clean and clear. It is far from bright city lights so the sky looks dark. People go there at night to see stars, the moon, and other lights in the sky.
Ocean\n\nAn ocean is a very big body of water. It is so big that it covers most of the Earth. It has five big parts, and the biggest one is the Pacific Ocean. Many animals live in it, like fish, crabs, and whales. Some live near the top where it is warm and bright. Others live deep down where it is cold and dark. People use boats to catch fish from it for food. The water in it looks blue because it takes in red light and sends back blue light. You can see it at the beach when you play in the sand and waves.
Ocean current\n\nAn ocean current is a big river of water that moves inside the ocean. It flows from one place to another, like a slow, wide path in the sea. Wind and the moon help make it move. You can find it in all the big oceans of the world. One big ocean current is the Gulf Stream, which moves warm water across the Atlantic Ocean. It can be near the top of the water or deep down below.
Ocean sunfish\n\nAn ocean sunfish is a very big, flat fish that lives in the warm sea. It looks like a big round plate with two long fins on top and bottom. It swims by waving those fins back and forth. Sometimes it floats on its side near the top of the water to get warm from the sun. It eats soft sea animals like jellyfish and tiny floating creatures. You can see it in big aquariums or in warm oceans all around the world.
Oceania\n\nOceania is a big part of the world with many islands. It sits in the big blue ocean called the Pacific. Some islands are very small, and some are very big. Many people live on these islands. They swim in warm water and play on sandy beaches. You can find colorful fish and tall palm trees there. Australia is a big place in Oceania. New Zealand is also in Oceania. It is far away from many other places, so you need a plane or a boat to go there.
Oceanic trench\n\nAn oceanic trench is a very deep, long crack in the floor of the ocean. It looks like a big, dark valley under the water. You find it far out in the sea, where the ground under the water bends down. It is made when big pieces of the Earth's floor push against each other and one slides under the other. The deepest one is called the Mariana Trench, near a place called Guam. It is so deep that if you put the tallest mountain inside, the top would still be under water.
October\n\nOctober is a month of the year. It comes after September and before November. In many places, the leaves on trees turn red, yellow, and orange. The air feels cool and crisp. People pick pumpkins and apples. At the end of the month, children dress up in costumes for Halloween. They go door to door and say "trick or treat" to get candy.
Octopus\n\nAn octopus is a soft sea animal with eight long arms. It has two big eyes and a hard beak like a bird. It lives in the ocean, often hiding in small spaces between rocks. It uses its arms to catch crabs and other food. When it feels scared, it can change color or squirt dark ink to get away. Some people see it in big tanks at the aquarium.
Odd\n\nOdd means something is not even. When you count, even numbers go two, four, six. Odd numbers go one, three, five. You can see odd numbers on a clock or on a dice. If you have three cookies and try to share them with a friend, one cookie is left over. That is odd.
Ode\n\nAn ode is a special kind of poem. It is a poem that says how great something or someone is. It often has a title like "Ode to a Bird" or "Ode to a Friend." People write it to show love or thanks. Long ago, people in Greece and Rome wrote odes. Today, you can write an ode for your mom or your pet. It is a happy way to use words.
Odin\n\nOdin is a very old god from stories told long ago. He is the father of many other gods and lives in a big, bright hall in the sky. He has only one eye because he gave the other one away to learn all the secrets of the world. He rides a horse with eight legs and carries a spear that never misses. Two big black birds sit on his shoulders and tell him what they see. In some places, the day called Wednesday is named after him.
Odor\n\nOdor is a smell that floats in the air. It comes from tiny bits that go into your nose. Your nose has special parts that tell your brain what the smell is. Some smells are nice, like flowers or cookies. Some smells are yucky, like trash or a skunk. You can smell many things every day, like soap, grass, or your lunch.
Odyssey\n\nThe Odyssey is a very old story from long ago. It tells about a man named Odysseus who tries to go home after a big fight. On his way, he meets a big one-eyed giant, a lady with magic songs, and other strange things. He is gone for many years, and his wife waits for him at home. When he finally gets back, he helps his family and makes things right again.
Oesophagus\n\nThe oesophagus is a tube inside your body. It connects your mouth to your tummy. When you swallow food, it pushes the food down. It is soft and can stretch to let food pass. You cannot see it because it is deep inside your neck and chest.
Of\n\nOf is a small word that shows how things go together. It helps tell what something is made from, like a cup of milk. It can also show who something belongs to, like the tail of a dog. You see it in many books and hear it in stories every day.
Off\n\nOff means something is not on. It is the opposite of on. When you turn off a light, the room gets dark. When you turn off a toy, it stops moving or making sounds. You can also say a person is off if they are not at work or school. Off is a small word you use every day.
Office\n\nAn office is a room where people work at desks. It has tables, chairs, and often computers. You can find it in big buildings in a city. People go there to write, read, and talk about work. A teacher's room at school is a kind of office.
Officer\n\nAn officer is a person who has an important job in a group. He wears a special uniform so people know he is in charge. You can see him in the police or the army. He tells others what to do and helps keep people safe. A police officer helps cars stop and go on the street. An army officer leads soldiers. Some officers work in big companies and make important choices.
Often\n\nOften means something happens many times. It is not just once, but again and again. You might often eat breakfast in the morning. You might often play with your favorite toy. When it rains a lot where you live, you often see puddles on the ground.
Oh\n\nOh is a little word we say when we feel something all of a sudden. It can show that we are happy, sad, or surprised. You might say it when you see a big rainbow in the sky. You might say it when you drop your toy. It is a sound that comes out before you think of other words.
Ohio River\n\nThe Ohio River is a long, wide stream of water. It flows through many states, like Ohio and Kentucky. People use it to move big boats that carry things. You can see it when you cross a bridge in a city like Cincinnati.
Oil\n\nOil is a slippery liquid that does not mix with water. It can be thick or thin. Some oil comes from plants like corn, olives, and sunflowers. People use it in a pan to cook food like eggs or pancakes. Other oil comes from deep under the ground. Big machines pull it up, and trucks carry it far away. This kind of oil helps cars and buses move. It also makes the parts inside a machine slide smoothly without getting stuck.
Oil paint\n\nOil paint is a thick, colorful goo that artists use to make pictures. It is made by mixing colored powder with oil from a plant called flax. It takes a very long time to dry, so an artist can work on a picture for many days. People often use it on a big piece of cloth stretched over a wooden frame. You can see oil paint in many famous pictures hanging in big buildings called museums.
Oil refinery\n\nAn oil refinery is a big factory that turns thick, dark oil from under the ground into things people use every day. It has tall towers, round tanks, and many pipes. You can find it near a city or by the sea. Inside, the oil gets very hot so it splits into different parts. One part becomes the gas that makes cars go. Another part becomes the black, sticky stuff used to make roads. A third part becomes the fuel that keeps houses warm in winter. The gas you see at a gas station comes from a refinery.
Oil well\n\nAn oil well is a deep hole in the ground. It is made to bring up oil from far below. People use big machines to dig the hole and pump the oil out. The oil is a dark, sticky liquid. It can be turned into gas for cars or used to make plastic toys. Long ago, people found oil coming out of the ground all by itself. Now we dig oil wells to get more.
Ok\n\nOk is a word we say when something is good or fine. It looks like two big letters: O and K. You hear it at home, at school, and when you play with friends. We use it to say yes, to agree, or to show we understand. For example, when your mom asks if you want a snack, you can say ok.
Okay\n\nOkay is a word people say when they agree or feel fine. It sounds like two short notes: oh and kay. You hear it at home, at school, and on the playground. When someone asks if you want a snack, you can say okay. It means yes, good, or I am ready. Sometimes a grown-up says okay to let you know everything is all right.
Okra\n\nOkra is a green vegetable that grows in warm places. It looks like a long, thin finger with small white seeds inside. You can find it at the store or in a garden. People cook it in soup, fry it, or put it in salads. It feels a little soft and sticky when you cut it. Many people in Africa and Asia eat it with their meals.
Old\n\nOld means something has been around for a long time. It can be a person, an animal, or a thing. An old person may have gray hair and wrinkles on their skin. An old toy might have faded colors or a small tear. You can find old things in your house, like a photo of your grandma when she was little. Old things often have many stories to tell.
Old age\n\nOld age is the time when a person has lived for many, many years. It often starts around 65. A person in old age may have skin with lines and soft folds. They move more slowly and can feel cold easily. Many older people stop going to work and stay home. They may help take care of little children in the family. Their body can get sick more often, so they may need medicine. People in old age are also called elders. Many people think elders are very wise because they have seen so much in life. They share stories and teach younger people.
Old English\n\nOld English is a very old way of talking and writing. It was used by people in England a long, long time ago. It sounds different from the English we speak today. It is more like the words people used in Germany and Denmark. We can still read old stories written in it, like a big poem about a hero named Beowulf.
Old Testament\n\nThe Old Testament is a very old book of stories. It is the first part of the Christian Bible. It tells about God and the people of Israel long ago. Inside, it has many smaller books. Some tell about how the world began. Others tell about brave people and their adventures. Many people read it to learn about God and how to be good.
Old World monkey\n\nAn Old World monkey is a kind of monkey that lives in Africa and Asia. It has a tail, but the tail cannot grab things like a hand. Some kinds live high in trees, and some live on the ground. Baboons and macaques are two kinds of Old World monkeys. They stay together in big family groups. The girl monkeys stay with their moms for their whole life. The boy monkeys leave when they grow up and find a new group.
Old World vulture\n\nAn Old World vulture is a big bird that eats dead animals. It has a bald head with very short feathers or no feathers at all. You can find it in places like Africa, Asia, and Europe. It uses its sharp eyes to spot food from high up in the sky. It helps keep the land clean by eating things that are already dead.
Oligarchy\n\nAn oligarchy is a way a country is run. It means a small group of people has all the power. They make the rules for everyone else. Sometimes this group is made of the richest people. Other times it is a few strong families. In an oligarchy, most people do not get to choose the leaders.
Olive\n\nAn olive is a small fruit that grows on a tree. It is round or oval and can be green, black, or purple. You can find olive trees in warm places near the sea. People eat olives as a snack or put them on pizza and in salads. They also squeeze olives to make a yellow oil for cooking. An olive has a hard pit inside that you do not eat.
Olympic Games\n\nThe Olympic Games are big sports parties where people from many countries come to run, jump, swim, and play. They happen every four years, once in summer and once in winter. In summer, you can see races and ball games. In winter, you can see skating and skiing on snow and ice. The best players get a gold, silver, or bronze circle to wear around their neck. A bright flame and a flag with five rings are part of the fun.
Olympic weightlifting\n\nOlympic weightlifting is a sport where a person lifts a very heavy bar. It has two big metal balls on each side called plates. You can see it on TV when the big sports games happen. The person picks up the bar from the floor and lifts it high over their head. They try to lift the heaviest bar they can. It takes strong arms and legs.
Olympics\n\nThe Olympics is a big sports party. It happens every four years in a different city. Many people from all over the world come to run, jump, swim, and play games. They try to be the best and win a shiny gold circle called a medal. You can watch it on TV with your family. The games have a bright fire that burns the whole time.
Olympus\n\nOlympus is a very tall mountain in Greece. It is so high that its top touches the clouds. Long ago, people told stories that twelve special gods lived on top of it. They believed the gods had a big house up there, hidden from people. Today, you can climb it and see far, far away.
Oman\n\nOman is a country far away across the big ocean. It is a hot, sandy place with a long blue sea next to it. The land has big deserts, tall mountains, and pretty beaches. A king called a sultan takes care of the country. Many people there live in a big city named Muscat. They are friendly and like to welcome visitors with a smile. In Oman, you can see camels walking on the sand and small boats on the water.
Omit\n\nTo omit means to leave something out. It is when you do not put a thing in a group or a list. If you have three crayons and you only use two, you omit one. When you tell a story and skip a part, you omit that part. It is like not picking a toy from the box.
On\n\nOn means something is touching the top of another thing. It is like when a cup sits on a table. You can also be on a chair or on a bed. When you put a toy on a shelf, the toy is on the shelf. It is a small word we use every day.
Once\n\nOnce means one time. It is a word we use when something happens only one time, not again and again. You might hear it in a story that starts with "Once upon a time." It can also mean a long time ago, like when your mom says she once was a little girl. When you do something once, you do it and then it is done.
One\n\nOne is the first number you say when you start counting. It looks like a straight line going up and down. You can find it on a clock, on a phone, and in books. It tells you there is just a single thing, like one apple or one shoe. When you hold up one finger, that is the number one.
One Thousand and One Nights\n\nOne Thousand and One Nights is a big book of old stories. It has many tales from faraway lands like Arabia and Persia. In it, a brave queen tells a new story every night to a king. She does this for a very long time so the king will not be angry. The stories are full of magic lamps, flying horses, and clever people. You might know one story about a boy named Aladdin and his magic lamp.
Onion\n\nAn onion is a round vegetable that grows under the ground. It has thin, papery skin on the outside and many white or purple layers inside. You can find it in a kitchen or at a food store. People cut it up and cook it in soups, on burgers, or in other foods. When you cut it, it can make your eyes sting and water. It has a very strong smell and taste.
Online\n\nOnline means you are connected to the internet. It is like a big invisible web that links computers and phones all over the world. When you are online, you can see pictures, play games, or talk to Grandma on a video call. You go online using a phone, a tablet, or a computer. Being online lets you find answers to many questions, just like a giant book that never ends.
Only\n\nOnly means just one and no more. It is a word you use when there is nothing else. If you have only one cookie, you have one cookie and that is all. It can also mean something is the best, like when you say "you are my only friend." You hear it in stories when someone is alone or when a toy is the last one on the shelf.
Ontario\n\nOntario is a big piece of land in Canada. It has many people and big cities. The biggest city is Toronto. It touches four big lakes: Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, Lake Huron, and Lake Superior. These lakes are so big they look like the sea. In winter, it gets lots of snow. In summer, it can be very hot. The flag is red with a small British flag on it. The flower is a white flower with three soft parts. Many people live in the south part, but the north part has very few people and no roads.
Onto\n\nOnto is a word that tells us something is on top of something else. It is a small word we use when we put one thing on another thing. You might say, "The cat jumped onto the bed." It helps us know where things are. When you climb onto a chair, you are using this word.
Ontology\n\nOntology is a big word for thinking about what things are. It is like making a list of all the kinds of things in the world. You can ask: is a toy a thing? Is a dream a thing? It helps people sort ideas into groups, like animals, plants, and rocks. Grown-ups who study this try to understand how everything fits together.
Open\n\nOpen means something is not closed. A door can be open so you can walk through it. A book can be open so you can read the pages inside. When a store is open, people can go in and buy things. You can open your mouth to eat or talk. Open is the opposite of shut or closed.
Opera\n\nOpera is a story told by singing. It is like a play, but people sing all the words instead of talking. You can see it in a big building called an opera house. Singers stand on a stage and act while a group of people with instruments plays music in front of them. The music helps tell the story and makes you feel happy or sad. Sometimes many singers sing together, and sometimes one person sings alone. Some operas are funny, and some are serious. A famous one is about a magic flute.
Operating system\n\nAn operating system is a big helper program inside a computer or phone. It makes all the other programs work together. It looks like a screen with little pictures you can tap or click. You find it on a family computer, a tablet, or a phone. It lets you play games, watch shows, and talk to friends. One example is the screen you see when you turn on a tablet.
Operation\n\nAn operation is something a doctor does to fix a part of your body. It happens in a special room called a hospital. The doctor makes a small cut to help a hurt place inside you get better. You sleep during it so you do not feel anything. After it, you rest and your body heals.
Opinion\n\nAn opinion is what you think about something. It is the idea inside your head. You can share it by saying "I think" or "In my opinion." It is not the same as a fact, which is something true you can check. Sometimes people ask many others what they think. This is called a poll. Your opinion can be about a color, a food, or a game. It is okay if your opinion is not the same as your friend's.
Opinion poll\n\nAn opinion poll is a way to ask many people what they think. It gives people a few answers to pick from. Then it counts how many picked each answer. It shows the numbers as parts of a hundred, like 30 out of 100. This helps us know what a big group of people likes or does not like. For example, it can ask which ice cream flavor is the best.
Opossum\n\nAn opossum is a small animal with gray fur and a long pink tail. It has a pointy white face and dark ears. It lives in trees and sometimes comes into yards at night. It eats bugs, fruit, and leftover food it finds. When it gets scared, it can play dead and lie very still. A baby opossum rides on its mother's back.
Opposite\n\nOpposite means the other way around. It is when two things are as different as they can be. Up is the opposite of down. Hot is the opposite of cold. You can find opposites everywhere you look. A big dog and a small dog are opposites in size. When you play, you can run fast or walk slow — fast and slow are opposites. It helps you see how things are not the same.
Optical illusion\n\nAn optical illusion is a picture that tricks your eyes. It looks different from what is really there. You can find it in books, on a screen, or in a fun house at a fair. Your brain sees one thing, but the real thing is not the same. For example, a drawing of stairs that seem to go up and down at the same time is an optical illusion.
Optics\n\nOptics is the study of light. It looks at how light moves and changes. You can see optics when light bounces off a mirror or bends in a glass of water. It helps us make glasses so people can see better. It also helps make cameras, telescopes, and microscopes. These tools use special clear pieces called lenses to make things look bigger or smaller. Light can also travel through thin glass strings called fibers. Fibers carry phone calls and the Internet over long ways.
Or\n\nOr is a small word that gives a choice. It sits between two things when you can pick only one. You might say, "Do you want an apple or a banana?" That means you can have the apple, or you can have the banana, but not both. It helps people ask questions and make plans.
Oral hygiene\n\nOral hygiene means keeping your mouth clean. It is what you do to stop germs from making your teeth and gums sick. You do it by brushing your teeth with a toothbrush and toothpaste every day. You can also clean your mouth with a little salt and water. Salt helps kill tiny germs that cause bad breath. When you take care of your mouth, your smile stays bright and your breath smells fresh.
Oral tradition\n\nAn oral tradition is a way of sharing stories and knowledge by talking. It uses voice and memory instead of writing. People tell the same stories to their children, who tell them to their children. They often make the stories into songs or poems so they are easier to remember. Long ago, before books, many groups kept their history alive this way. Even today, a grandparent telling a bedtime story is part of an oral tradition.
Orange\n\nAn orange is a round fruit that grows on a tree. It has a thick, bumpy skin that is bright orange in color. Inside, it is soft and juicy, and it splits into small pieces called segments. You can peel the skin off and eat the inside. It tastes sweet and a little sour. People often squeeze it to make a drink called orange juice. You can find it in a fruit bowl at home or in a store.
Orange (color)\n\nOrange is a bright, warm color. It is made by mixing red and yellow together. You can see it in the sky when the sun goes down. Many fruits, like the orange fruit, have this color. It is also the color of pumpkins in the fall and carrots that you eat. Some flowers, like marigolds, are orange too. People use it to make things look happy and full of energy.
Orange (fruit)\n\nAn orange is a round, juicy fruit. It has a bright orange skin that you can peel off. Inside, it breaks into small pieces called segments. Each segment is full of tiny juice pockets. It grows on a tree with shiny green leaves and sweet-smelling white flowers. You can find it in a store or a lunchbox. People eat it as a snack or squeeze it to make juice for breakfast. It tastes sweet and a little sour. It is very good for your body because it has something that helps you stay healthy.
Orange River\n\nThe Orange River is a very long river in the south part of Africa. It starts in the tall hills of a place called Lesotho. It flows and forms a line between two big lands, South Africa and Namibia. People use its water to help plants grow on farms. They also use its water to make power that turns on lights. The river got its name from a family of kings far away, but the water is not orange. It looks like most rivers, with blue or brown water.
Orangutan\n\nAn orangutan is a big, hairy animal that lives in the forest. It has long arms, short legs, and red-brown hair all over its body. It lives high up in the trees in hot, rainy places far away. It eats fruit, leaves, and sometimes bugs. A baby orangutan stays with its mom for a long time, holding on to her as she moves through the trees.
Orbit\n\nAn orbit is the path something takes when it goes around a big thing in space. It looks like a big, flat circle or a squashed circle. You can find orbits in the sky, like the Moon going around the Earth. The Earth goes around the Sun in an orbit, and that takes one whole year. The Moon is a big rock that orbits the Earth, and you can see it at night.
Orchard\n\nAn orchard is a big piece of land where many food trees grow. It has rows of trees that give fruit like apples, pears, or oranges. You can find it on a farm or near a big garden. People pick the fruit from the trees to eat or sell at a market. Sometimes you see an orchard when you drive past a farm with lots of trees in a line.
Orchestra\n\nAn orchestra is a big group of people who play music together. It has many kinds of instruments that make different sounds. You can see an orchestra in a big room called a concert hall. One person stands in front and waves a stick to help everyone play at the same time. The instruments are split into families: strings you bow, winds you blow, brass that shines, and things you hit like drums. When you hear a movie song or a happy tune, it is often an orchestra playing.
Orchid\n\nAn orchid is a kind of flower. It has bright colors and soft petals. You can find it in many places around the world, like warm forests and mountains. People grow it in pots at home or in gardens to look at its pretty blooms. Some orchids smell sweet, and one kind gives us vanilla for ice cream.
Order\n\nAn order is a way to put things in a line. It can be from small to big, or from first to last. When you line up your toys from shortest to tallest, you make an order. In a story, things happen in an order too: first you wake up, then you eat, then you play. Numbers have an order: one, two, three, four. An order helps us know what comes next.
Ore\n\nAn ore is a kind of rock that has useful metal inside it. It looks like a plain stone, but it holds something shiny and strong. People dig it out of the ground in big holes called mines. They heat the rock very hot to melt the metal out. Then they use the metal to make things like cars, cans, and tools. You might see a metal spoon at home—that metal once came from an ore.
Organ\n\nAn organ is a special part inside your body. It has a job that keeps you alive and healthy. Your heart is an organ that pumps blood. Your stomach is an organ that helps break down food. Your brain is an organ that thinks and tells your body what to do. You cannot see most organs because they are under your skin.
Organ (biology)\n\nAn organ is a part inside your body that does a special job. It is made of tiny living pieces that work together. Your heart is an organ that pumps blood. Your lungs are organs that help you breathe. Your stomach is an organ that helps break down food. All your organs work as a team to keep you alive and healthy.
Organic\n\nOrganic is a word that tells us how some food is grown. It means the food grew without fake sprays or powders that kill bugs. Farmers use clean dirt, water, and sun to help it grow. You can find organic apples, carrots, and milk at the store. It often has a small green and white sticker on it. Many people like organic food because it is good for the earth.
Organic Chemistry\n\nOrganic chemistry is a kind of science about stuff that has carbon in it. Carbon is a tiny building block found in many things. It is in the food we eat, like apples and bread. It is also in our bodies, in things like skin and hair. Scientists who study organic chemistry make new things, like medicines and plastics. They mix different parts together to see what happens.
Organic farms\n\nAn organic farm is a place where people grow food without using strong chemicals. It has fields of vegetables, fruits, and sometimes animals like cows and chickens. You can find organic farms in the countryside, and some are near towns. Farmers on organic farms use natural things like animal poop to feed the soil. They also use good bugs, like ladybugs, to eat bad bugs that hurt plants. Food from organic farms is often sold at a farmers market with a special sticker that says it is organic.
Organism\n\nAn organism is any living thing. It can be a plant, an animal, or something very tiny. It needs food, water, and a place to live. Some are so small you need a special tool to see them. A dog, a tree, and a fish are all organisms.
Organization\n\nAn organization is a group of people who work together. It has a leader who helps everyone know what to do. You can find an organization at a school, a store, or a fire station. People in an organization do different jobs to get big things done. For example, at a school, the principal, teachers, and helpers all work together to help kids learn.
Orientation\n\nOrientation is a time when you learn about a new place. It helps you know where things are, like the bathroom or the playground. At school, orientation happens before the first day so you can meet your teacher. It makes you feel safe and not scared in a new spot.
Origami\n\nOrigami is the art of folding paper into shapes. It uses a flat, square piece of paper. You can find origami paper in stores, but any paper works. People fold it into animals, flowers, and boxes without cutting or gluing. A paper crane is a well-known origami shape.
Orion (constellation)\n\nOrion is a group of stars that makes a picture in the night sky. It looks like a person with a belt made of three bright stars in a row. You can see it best on clear winter nights. People long ago told stories about a great hunter named Orion. Today, you can use its belt to find other bright stars nearby.
Orion nebula\n\nThe Orion nebula is a big, bright cloud in the night sky. It looks like a fuzzy patch of light. You can see it without a telescope if the sky is dark. It lives in the part of the sky called Orion, near three stars that make a belt. It is a place where new stars are born. Inside it, gas and dust come together to make baby stars. Some of these stars are very hot and shine brightly. The Orion nebula is far away, but it is one of the closest star-making places to Earth.
Orphan\n\nAn orphan is a child whose mom and dad are gone. It may live in a big house with other children who have no parents. Some orphans find a new family that takes care of them. You might know an orphan from a story, like Harry Potter or Annie.
Orphanage\n\nAn orphanage is a big house where children live when they have no mom or dad to take care of them. It has many beds, a kitchen, and a place to play. Kind grown-ups work there to help the children. They give them food, clothes, and a safe place to sleep. Sometimes a child stays for a short time, and sometimes for a long time. The grown-ups also help the children learn and play together.
Orthodox\n\nOrthodox is a big group of Christian churches. They believe in God and Jesus. Their church buildings often have round tops and gold crosses. Inside, there are many painted pictures of holy people. People light candles and sing old songs when they pray. You can find Orthodox churches in countries like Greece and Russia.
Osaka\n\nOsaka is a big city in Japan. It sits next to the sea, so boats can come and go. Long ago, a strong leader built a big castle there. You can still see Osaka Castle today. Many people live and work in the city. They make yummy food like round batter cakes and little balls with octopus inside. Some people there speak in a special way that sounds different from other places in Japan.
Oscillation\n\nOscillation is a kind of moving back and forth. It is like a swing that goes forward, then back, then forward again. You can see it when you push a swing at the park. A clock also has a part that swings to keep time. After a while, it slows down and stops because of rubbing.
Osiris\n\nOsiris is a god from old Egyptian stories. He looks like a king wrapped in white cloth, with green skin and a tall white hat with feathers. People in Egypt loved him because he was kind and taught them how to grow food and live peacefully. He became the god of the place where people go after they die. There, he watches over them and keeps them safe. His wife Isis and his son Horus are also in the stories. Many people drew pictures of him holding a curved stick and a whip, which are signs of a king.
Oslo\n\nOslo is a big city in a country called Norway. It is the most important city in that country. It has many old buildings, parks, and a big water place called a fjord. People in Oslo use trains and buses to go around. Many visitors come to see a big park with statues and a tall ski jump. In winter, it gets very cold and snow falls.
Osprey\n\nAn osprey is a big bird that eats fish. It has dark brown wings and a white belly. Its head is white with a dark line across the eyes. It lives near lakes and rivers where it can catch fish. It flies with its wings in a curved shape. People also call it a fish hawk.
Other\n\nOther is a word we use when we talk about things that are not the same as the ones we already named. It can be a thing, a person, or a place that is different. When you have a red ball and a blue ball, the blue ball is the other ball. You might say, "I want the other cookie," when you see two cookies and you pick the one you did not pick before. It helps us show that there is more than one choice.
Others\n\nOthers means the rest of the people or things. It is a word we use when we talk about a group and then talk about the ones that are not in that group. For example, if you have three red blocks and two blue blocks, you can say some blocks are red and the others are blue. It helps us talk about what is left over.
Ottawa\n\nOttawa is a big city in Canada. It is the capital, where the country's leaders work. It sits next to a wide river called the Ottawa River. Many people live there, and they speak two languages: English and French. You can see tall buildings for the government, big museums, and green parks. In winter, there is a fun ice party called Winterlude. In spring, many colorful flowers called tulips bloom. On July 1st, people celebrate Canada Day with music and lights. The city also has teams that play ice hockey and football.
Otter\n\nAn otter is a furry animal that loves water. It has a long, slim body, short legs, and a thick tail. Its fur is brown on top and lighter on the belly. It lives near rivers, lakes, or the sea. It is a great swimmer and can stay underwater for a long time. It eats fish, crabs, and frogs. It uses its sharp teeth to catch food. Sometimes it uses a rock to break open hard shells. Otters like to play and slide down muddy hills. They make sounds like whistles and chirps to talk to each other.
Ottoman\n\nAn ottoman is a soft, low seat with no back or arms. It is often round or square and covered in cloth or leather. You can find it in a living room or a cozy corner. People use it to rest their feet when they sit on a big chair. Sometimes it opens up to hide toys or blankets inside. A child might sit on it to put on shoes.
Ottoman Empire\n\nThe Ottoman Empire was a big group of lands ruled by one leader long ago. It started in a place far away called Turkey. The leader was called a sultan, and he lived in a big palace. It grew very large and had many people, markets, and pretty buildings. It is not around anymore today.
Ounce\n\nAn ounce is a small way to measure how heavy something is. It is used to weigh things like a slice of bread, a pencil, or a small toy. You can find ounces on food boxes and kitchen scales. Bakers use it to measure flour and sugar for cakes. A letter you mail is often one ounce or less.
Our\n\nOur is a word we use to show something belongs to us. It is a small word with three letters. You hear it when people talk about things they share, like "our house" or "our toys." When a family sits together at dinner, they might say "our table." In a classroom, the teacher might say "our books" to mean the books everyone uses. It helps us feel like we are part of a group.
Ours\n\nOurs means something belongs to us. It is a word we say when a thing is not just for one person, but for all of us together. For example, a toy that you and your friend share is ours. A house where your family lives is ours. When you play with a ball at school, you might say, "This ball is ours."
Out\n\nOut is the opposite of in. It means something is not inside a place. When you go out, you leave a room or a house. A ball can roll out of a box. You can look out a window to see the sky. When the sun is out, it is bright and warm.
Outback\n\nThe outback is a big, dry place in Australia. It is far away from towns and cities. There are not many roads or farms there. You can see red dirt, big rocks, and a few trees. Some people have big farms with sheep or cows. A special flying doctor helps people who get sick because it is too far to drive to a hospital. People visit the outback to see the land, but they must bring lots of water and food. It is very hot and empty, so you need a strong car to travel there.
Outer space\n\nOuter space is the big, dark place above the sky. It starts where the air stops, way up high. It has no air, so people cannot breathe there. In outer space, you find the sun, the moon, and all the stars. It is also where the Earth and other planets live. Astronauts go there in special ships that keep air inside. They wear big suits to stay safe. From outer space, the Earth looks like a big blue and green ball.
Outside\n\nOutside is the big open space that is not inside a building. It is where you see the sky, the sun, the moon, and the stars. You find it when you walk out the door of your house or school. People go outside to play, run, ride bikes, or sit in the grass. You can hear birds sing and feel the wind blow when you are outside.
Outsider art\n\nOutsider art is art made by people who did not go to art school. It is not made to sell in a store. You can find it in places like a person's own yard or a big empty field. The person makes it from their own ideas and feelings, not from what other artists do. Sometimes they build a whole house that looks very different from other houses. They might also paint or make things from clay. One example is a big, colorful tower a person builds all by themselves.
Ovary\n\nAn ovary is a small part inside a girl's or woman's body. It is shaped like a little oval. Most girls have two of them, one on each side of the belly. It holds tiny eggs that can grow into a baby when a mommy and daddy come together. It also sends out special helpers that make a girl's body change as she grows up. Every month, one egg leaves the ovary and goes down a soft tube. If the egg does not meet a daddy's seed, the body lets it go out with some blood. When a woman gets older, the ovary stops sending out eggs and helpers.
Oven\n\nAn oven is a hot box for cooking food. It has a door and a space inside that gets very warm. You find it in a kitchen at home or in a bakery. It bakes bread, cookies, and cakes, and it can also heat up food. When you open the door, hot air comes out, so you must be careful. A long time ago, people made ovens from mud and bricks. Today, many ovens use power from a plug or from gas to get hot.
Ovenbird\n\nAn ovenbird is a small bird that sings pretty songs. It has brown feathers on its back and a white belly with dark spots. It lives in woods in the east part of North America. When it gets cold, it flies to warm places like Florida. It builds a nest on the ground that looks like a little round oven. It walks on the ground to find bugs to eat, while many other birds hop.
Over\n\nOver means something is above or higher than something else. It can be a blanket over your bed, a roof over your head, or a bird flying over a tree. When a game is over, it means the game has finished. You might hear a grown-up say "the soup boiled over" when it spills from the pot.
Owl\n\nAn owl is a bird that flies at night. It has big round eyes, a flat face, and a short hooked beak. Its feathers are soft and brown or gray with spots. It lives in trees and can be found almost everywhere in the world. It hunts small animals like mice when it is dark. It can turn its head very far around to look behind itself.
Own\n\nOwn means something belongs to you. It is your special thing that no one else can take without asking. You can own a toy, a book, or a blanket. When you say "This is my own teddy bear," it means the teddy bear is yours and not your friend's. People also own bigger things like a house or a car. Sharing is nice, but it is okay to have your own things too.
Owner\n\nAn owner is a person who has something that belongs to them. It can be a toy, a pet, a house, or a book. If you have a dog and you take care of it, you are its owner. An owner keeps their things safe and decides who can use them. When you share your crayons with a friend, you are still the owner because they are yours.
Oxygen\n\nOxygen is a gas that is all around us. It has no color, no smell, and no taste. We cannot see it, but we breathe it in every moment. It is part of the air, and all people and animals need it to live. Fish also use oxygen that is mixed in water. Plants and trees make oxygen when the sun shines on their leaves. This helps keep the air fresh for us. In a hospital, a sick person may get extra oxygen from a mask to help them breathe better.
Oyster\n\nAn oyster is a small animal that lives in the water. It has two hard, bumpy shells that close tight. You find it in the sea, on muddy or rocky ground. People eat it raw or cooked, and it tastes a little salty. Some oysters make a shiny pearl inside.
Pablo Picasso\n\nPablo Picasso was a man who made art. He painted pictures and made shapes out of clay. His art often used bright colors and funny shapes. You might see his work in a big book or a museum. Some of his paintings show people with faces that look mixed up. He liked to try new ways of making art.
Pacific\n\nThe Pacific is a very big ocean. It is the biggest body of water on Earth. It looks blue and wide, and you cannot see the other side. Many fish, whales, and turtles live in it. Big ships sail on it to carry things from one land to another. You might see it at a beach with soft sand and waves.
Pacific Ocean\n\nThe Pacific Ocean is a very, very big body of water. It is the biggest ocean on Earth. It touches many lands, like Asia and the Americas. You can find it on a big map or a globe. It is so wide that it covers almost one third of the whole world. Many fish and whales live in it. Big boats sail on it to carry things from one place to another. Sometimes the ground under it shakes and makes big waves called tsunamis.
Pacific Ring of Fire\n\nThe Pacific Ring of Fire is a big circle around the big ocean called the Pacific. It has many mountains that can get hot and spit fire and rocks. These are called volcanoes. The ground in this circle shakes a lot. That shaking is called an earthquake. Many people live near this circle, and they see these things happen. It is a place where the ground under the ocean moves and bumps together.
Pacifism\n\nPacifism is a way of thinking that says fighting is not good. It means you try to solve problems without hitting or hurting anyone. People who follow pacifism use kind words and calm actions instead of fists or weapons. They believe that hurting others only makes things worse. Many people around the world try to live this way every day.
Pack\n\nA pack is a group of things tied or wrapped together. It can be a bag you carry on your back, like a school pack. You might see a pack of crayons or a pack of snacks at the store. People use a pack to keep things together and easy to carry. A pack of wolves is a family that lives and hunts together.
Pad\n\nA pad is a soft, flat thing. It can be made of cloth, paper, or foam. You might see a pad on a desk for a computer mouse. Some pads are used to clean up small spills. A bandage pad covers a cut to keep it safe.
Paddle\n\nA paddle is a long stick with a flat end. It is used to push water and move a small boat. You hold it with both hands and dip the flat part into the water. When you pull it back, the boat glides forward. Some paddles are made of wood, and some are made of plastic. You might see one at a lake or on a river where people go canoeing.
Paganism\n\nPaganism is a set of old beliefs about gods and nature. It often has many gods, not just one. Long ago, people in places like Greece told stories about these gods. Today, some people still follow these old ways. They love the Earth, the sun, the moon, and the trees. They may have special days to say thank you to nature. A person who follows these beliefs is called a Pagan.
Page\n\nA page is one flat piece of paper. It is thin and you can turn it. You find it inside a book, a notebook, or a coloring pad. People write or draw on it with a pencil or crayon. When you read a story, you turn the page to see what happens next.
Pagoda\n\nA pagoda is a tall tower with roofs that stick out at each floor. It looks like a stack of hats, one on top of the other. You can find it in many countries in Asia, near temples and quiet gardens. People use it to keep special holy things safe inside. Some pagodas are very old and have many stories. When you see one, you might count the roofs from the ground up.
Pain\n\nPain is a bad feeling you get when you are hurt or sick. It can feel like a sting, a burn, or an ache. You might feel it in one spot, like a scraped knee, or all over, like when you have a fever. It tells your brain that something is wrong so you can get help. A hug, a bandage, or medicine can make it feel better.
Paint\n\nPaint is a colored liquid that you put on things. It can be red, blue, yellow, or any color. You find it in a can or a tube. People use a brush or a roller to spread it on walls, paper, or toys. When it dries, it stays on and looks pretty. Paint keeps wood safe from rain and sun. It also stops metal from getting rusty. Artists use paint to make pictures. You may have painted a picture at school with your fingers or a brush.
Painted turtle\n\nA painted turtle is a small turtle with a dark, smooth shell. It has green or black skin with bright red, orange, or yellow stripes on its neck, legs, and tail. It lives in slow, quiet water with lots of plants, like ponds and lakes. You can see it in North America, from Canada down to Mexico. It eats water plants, tiny bugs, and small fish. It likes to sit on a log in the sun to get warm. In winter, it sleeps in the mud at the bottom of the water. Its hard shell keeps it safe from animals that might try to eat it.
Painter\n\nA painter is a person who makes pictures with colors. He uses a brush to put paint on paper or a big cloth. You can see his work in a book, on a wall, or in a museum. He might paint a house, a tree, or a face. Some painters use bright colors, and some use soft colors. A painter looks at things around him and then shows what he sees with paint.
Painting\n\nPainting is making a picture with colors. It uses a brush and wet paint on paper or a board. You can see paintings in a museum or on a wall at home. Some paintings show people, trees, or shapes. A famous painting is the Mona Lisa, which shows a smiling lady.
Pair\n\nA pair is two things that go together. It can be two shoes, two socks, or two mittens. You find pairs all around you, like a pair of eyes on your face or a pair of hands. When you put on your shoes, you use a pair to walk and run. A pair of socks keeps both feet warm.
Pajama\n\nA pajama is a soft set of clothes you wear to bed. It has a top and pants that feel cozy on your skin. You can find pajamas in your drawer or closet at home. People put them on at night to sleep comfortably. Some pajamas have fun pictures like stars, animals, or dots.
Pakistan\n\nPakistan is a country far away. It has tall mountains, hot deserts, and a big river called the Indus. Many people live there, and they speak different languages. The biggest city is Karachi, and the capital is Islamabad. It is a place with a long, long history, where people have lived for a very, very long time.
Pal\n\nA pal is a very good friend. It is someone you like to play with and share your toys. You can find a pal at school, in your neighborhood, or at the park. A pal makes you laugh and helps you when you are sad. You and your pal might draw pictures together or run around outside. Having a pal makes every day more fun.
Palace\n\nA palace is a very big, fancy house. It is where a king or a queen lives. It has many rooms, tall doors, and shiny floors. You can see a palace in old cities or in storybooks. People go inside to look at the pretty rooms and learn about long ago. Some palaces are now big houses for shows and parties.
Palace of Versailles\n\nThe Palace of Versailles is a very big, fancy house where a king once lived. It is in a place called France, near a big city named Paris. It has many rooms with shiny gold on the walls and bright, pretty gardens outside with water that jumps up from fountains. Long ago, a king named Louis lived there with many helpers and made all the rules for the land. Today, people from all over the world come to walk through the rooms and see how the king lived.
Palau\n\nPalau is a small country made of many islands. It sits in the big, blue Pacific Ocean. The weather is warm all year, like a long summer. People can swim in the clear water and see colorful fish. Many big trees with green leaves grow there. Palau is far away from most other places.
Paleontology\n\nPaleontology is the study of very old life. It looks at fossils, which are the hard parts of animals and plants that lived long, long ago. You can find fossils in rocks and in the ground. Some people dig them up carefully and put them in museums. A fossil can be a big dinosaur bone or a tiny shell. Paleontology helps us learn about animals that are not alive anymore.
Palm\n\nA palm is the flat, soft part on the inside of your hand. It is between your wrist and your fingers. When you open your hand, you can see it. It helps you hold things like a cup or a toy. You can clap your palms together to make a happy sound.
Palm tree\n\nA palm tree is a tall plant that grows in hot places. It has a long, straight trunk with no branches. At the top, big green leaves spread out like a fan or a feather. You can find it near warm beaches, in parks, or in forests where it is sunny. People use it to get food like coconuts and dates. They also use its leaves to make roofs and mats. A palm tree is a sign of warm, sunny vacations.
Pampas\n\nThe Pampas is a very big, flat piece of land. It has soft grass and some small hills. You can find it in South America, in places like Argentina. It is home to many farms where cows eat grass and people grow food. The weather there is warm and sometimes wet.
Pan\n\nA pan is a round, flat thing you use to cook food. It has a long handle so you can hold it safely. You find it in the kitchen on top of the stove. People use it to fry eggs, make pancakes, or cook meat. When you see a pan, it is often black or silver and gets hot from the fire.
Panama\n\nPanama is a country in South America. It is a long, skinny piece of land between two big oceans. You can find it on a map near Costa Rica and Colombia. The most famous thing about it is the Panama Canal. This is a big water path that lets ships go from one ocean to the other. Many people in Panama speak Spanish. The weather there is warm and sunny most of the time.
Panama Canal\n\nThe Panama Canal is a big water road in the country of Panama. It connects two big oceans: the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. It has special gates called locks that lift boats up and down. This helps boats go from one ocean to the other without going all the way around South America. Many big ships use it every year to carry things from one place to another.
Panama City\n\nPanama City is a big city where many people live. It is the most important city in a country called Panama. It has tall buildings, busy streets, and a long walkway by the water. Many older people move there to enjoy warm weather and a calm life. You can see big ships pass by on the water near the city.
Pancake\n\nA pancake is a flat, round food you can eat for breakfast. It is soft and golden brown on the outside. You make it with flour, eggs, and milk, and cook it in a pan. People often put sweet things on top, like syrup, fruit, or a little butter. You can find pancakes at home or in a restaurant. Many kids love them because they taste warm and yummy.
Pancreas\n\nThe pancreas is a soft body part deep inside your belly. It sits behind your stomach on the left side. It makes special juices that help break down the food you eat into tiny bits your body can use. It also makes helpers that keep the sugar in your blood just right. If it stops working, a person can get sick and need medicine every day.
Panda\n\nA panda is a big, soft animal that looks like a bear. It has black and white fur. It has black patches around its eyes, black ears, and a black nose. It lives in forests far away in a country called China. It eats bamboo, a tall green plant, almost all day long. It sits down to eat and holds the bamboo with its front paws. A baby panda is very tiny and pink when it is born. Many children love to see a panda at the zoo.
Pandemic\n\nA pandemic is when a sickness spreads to many people all over the world. It is a very big sickness that moves from one person to another. You cannot see it, but it can make many people feel sick at the same time. Doctors and nurses work hard to help people stay safe. They tell us to wash our hands and cover our mouth when we cough. A pandemic is not like a cold that only a few friends get. It is much bigger and can reach every country.
Panel\n\nA panel is a flat, square or rectangle piece. It can be made of wood, metal, glass, or cloth. You see panels on walls, doors, and in cars. Some panels have buttons or lights that people push to make things work. A comic book page is made of small panels that each show one part of the story.
Pangaea\n\nPangaea was one big, giant piece of land a very long time ago. It was so big that all the land on Earth was stuck together like one huge puzzle. Around it was one big ocean. Over many, many years, it broke apart into smaller pieces. Those pieces slowly moved and became the lands we live on today, like where you find your house or a park.
Pangolin\n\nA pangolin is an animal with a body covered in hard, flat scales. It looks a little like a pine cone or a walking artichoke. It lives in parts of Africa and Asia, in forests and grassy places. It uses its long, sticky tongue to eat ants and termites. When it feels scared, it rolls up into a tight ball to stay safe. Its scales are sharp and help keep it safe from big cats and other animals that want to eat it.
Panic\n\nPanic is a big, sudden feeling of being very scared. It can make your heart beat fast and your hands feel shaky. You might feel it when you think something bad is about to happen. Sometimes it comes when you are lost in a store and cannot find your mom or dad. It goes away when you take slow, deep breaths and know you are safe.
Pant\n\nA pant is a piece of clothing that covers your legs. It has two long tubes, one for each leg, and a part that goes around your waist. You put it on in the morning when you get dressed. It keeps your legs warm and safe when you play outside. You can find pants in many colors, like blue, black, or red. Some pants have pockets to hold small toys or snacks.
Pants\n\nPants are clothes that cover your legs. They have two long tubes, one for each leg, and a part that goes around your waist. You put them on one leg at a time. People wear pants to keep warm and to play outside. You can find pants in a closet or a drawer. Some pants have pockets to hold small toys or snacks. Jeans are a kind of pants made from strong blue cloth.
Papa\n\nA papa is the dad of your mom or your dad. He is older than your parents, and he may have white or gray hair. Many papas live in their own house, and you can visit them for a treat. He might tell stories, fix things, or play games with you. Some papas live very near, and some live far away. He loves you very much and is happy when you come to see him.
Papaya\n\nA papaya is a big fruit that grows in warm places. It is yellow or orange inside and has many small black seeds. You can find it in stores or at a market. People eat it fresh or in a fruit salad. It tastes sweet and is good for your body.
Paper\n\nPaper is a thin, flat thing made from tiny pieces of wood. It is smooth and can be white or many colors. You see it every day in books, drawing pads, and boxes. People use it to write, draw, and print stories. It can also clean up spills because it soaks up water. A paper towel in the kitchen is one kind you might know.
Papua New Guinea\n\nPapua New Guinea is a country made of many islands. It sits in the big blue ocean near Australia. The main island is very big and has tall green mountains and thick forests. Many people live in small villages and grow food like sweet potatoes. They speak more different languages than any other country in the world. The capital city is called Port Moresby. Long ago, people came to the island and started farming all by themselves.
Papyrus\n\nPapyrus is a kind of paper from long, long ago. It was made from a tall plant that grew near the water. People cut the plant into thin strips and pressed them flat to make a sheet. They used it to write on, like we use paper today. You can see old papyrus in a museum, with pictures and writing on it.
Parachute\n\nA parachute is a big cloth that helps a person fall slowly from the sky. It looks like an umbrella when it opens. You see it when people jump out of an airplane. It catches air and lets the person float down softly to the ground. Some people use it for fun in a sport called skydiving.
Parade\n\nA parade is a big, happy walk down a street. It has people, music, and bright colors. You can see it on a holiday, like when the year is new. People in a parade may wear funny hats or play big drums. They wave and smile as they go by. Sometimes big, round balloons float above the crowd. You can stand on the side and watch it pass.
Paradise\n\nParadise is a place where everything is happy and good. It is a place with no pain, no tears, and no sadness. Many people think it is up in the sky. In stories, it has soft green grass, bright flowers, and warm sunshine. People who are very kind and good may go there one day.
Paragraph\n\nA paragraph is a group of sentences that talk about one idea. It starts with a little space before the first word. You find paragraphs in storybooks, school papers, and letters. It helps you read by breaking big ideas into smaller parts. When you see a new paragraph, you know the writer is starting a new thought.
Paraguay\n\nParaguay is a country in South America. It is not next to the ocean, so it has no beach. It has big rivers and green trees. Many people there speak Spanish and a second language called Guaran. The biggest city is Asuncion. People in Paraguay grow food like corn and beans. They also raise cows on big fields of grass. The weather is often warm and a little wet. Many children play soccer after school.
Paralympic Games\n\nThe Paralympic Games are big sports games for people whose bodies work a little differently. They happen right after the Olympic Games in the same big city. The players, called Paralympians, may use special wheelchairs or running legs. They run, swim, play ball games, and do many other sports. The games started a long time ago when a kind doctor wanted to help hurt soldiers feel strong again. Now people from all over the world come to play and cheer.
Paran River\n\nThe Paran River is a very long river in South America. It flows through Brazil, Paraguay, and Argentina. It is the second longest river on that continent, after the Amazon. The water starts where two smaller rivers meet in Brazil. Then it travels south and joins another big river before reaching the ocean. People catch fish in it, like the surub and the sbalo. Big walls called dams are built on the river. They use the moving water to make power for lights and machines.
Parasitism\n\nParasitism is when one living thing lives on or inside another living thing and gets food from it. It is like a tiny guest that stays too long. The guest is called a parasite. The one it lives on is called a host. Sometimes it hurts the host, and sometimes it does not. A tapeworm inside a person's tummy is a parasite. A leech on skin is also a parasite. Many bugs on plants are parasites too. They eat the plant's leaves and can make the plant sick. Parasitism is a very common way for living things to get food on Earth.
Parcel\n\nA parcel is a box or a bag that you send to someone. It is wrapped in paper or put in a box so the things inside stay safe. You can take it to the post office, and a mail carrier brings it to a friend's house. It can hold a gift, a toy, or a book. When you get a parcel, you open it and see what is inside.
Parchment\n\nParchment is a thin, flat sheet made from animal skin. It is smooth and light in color, like old paper. Long ago, people used it to write on and to make the pages of a book. You might see it in a museum, inside a very old book with a hard cover. It feels a little stiff and can last for many, many years.
Parent\n\nA parent is a grown-up who takes care of a child. It can be a mom or a dad. A parent gives food, a home, and love. It helps the child learn to walk, talk, and play. When a child is sick, a parent gives hugs and medicine. A parent reads stories at bedtime and tucks the child in. Some children have two parents, and some have one. A parent is very important in a family.
Parenting\n\nParenting is how moms and dads take care of a child. It means giving a baby food, a warm bed, and lots of hugs. When a baby is very small, it cannot talk, so parents watch it closely to know what it needs. As the child gets bigger, parents teach it how to brush its teeth and say please and thank you. They also show the child how to be kind and share with others. Parenting is a big job full of love every day.
Paris\n\nParis is a big city in a country called France. It has many old buildings, tall towers, and a long river that runs through the middle. You can see a very tall iron tower there called the Eiffel Tower. Many people visit Paris to look at art in big houses called museums. It has a train that goes under the ground so people can ride from place to place. Some people eat long bread and soft cheese when they are there.
Park\n\nA park is a big open place with grass and trees. It has benches to sit on, paths to walk on, and sometimes a pond with ducks. You can find a park in a city or a town. People go there to play, run, ride a bike, or have a picnic. Some parks have a playground with swings and a slide. A few parks are very big and protect wild animals and forests. You might visit a park with your family on a sunny day.
Parking\n\nParking is when you stop a car and leave it in a safe spot. It means the car stays still while you go do other things. You can park in a big flat lot with painted lines, or next to the curb on a street. Some places have a tall building with many floors just for parking. Before you park, you must check signs to make sure it is okay to leave the car there. If you park where you should not, you might get a paper ticket and have to pay money.
Parliament\n\nA parliament is a group of people who make the rules for a country. It has a big room where they sit and talk. They decide what is fair and what is not fair. The leader of the group is called the Prime Minister. People choose who sits in the parliament by voting. It is a bit like a big school meeting where everyone helps decide the rules.
Parody\n\nA parody is a funny copy of a song, a movie, or a story. It takes something people know and makes it silly. It shows the same parts but bigger and funnier. For example, in a cowboy movie, the good guy always wins. In a parody, the good guy might shoot one time and ten bad guys fall down. People make parodies to laugh at things everyone has seen. You can find a parody on TV, in a book, or in a song.
Parrot\n\nA parrot is a bird with bright feathers. It has a big head, a short neck, and a strong, curved beak. It uses its beak to crack open seeds and nuts. Many parrots live in warm places with lots of trees. Some parrots can copy the sounds people make. People keep them as pets because they are pretty and can learn to talk.
Parsley\n\nParsley is a small green plant that people use in food. It has many tiny, flat or curly leaves on thin stems. You can find it in gardens or in pots on a sunny windowsill. People put it on top of soup, salad, or meat to make the food look pretty and taste fresh. Some people chew a little bit of it after a meal to make their breath smell nice. It grows best in soft, damp dirt with lots of light.
Parsnip\n\nA parsnip is a vegetable that grows under the ground. It looks like a long, white carrot. You can find it in a garden or at a food store. People cook it and eat it because it tastes sweet. It is a cousin to the carrot and the green herb called parsley.
Part\n\nA part is a piece of something bigger. It is one small bit that fits with other bits to make a whole thing. You can find parts in many places, like a puzzle piece on the floor or a wheel on a toy car. When you take a cookie from a box, that cookie is a part of the box. Every part helps the big thing work or look right.
Parthenon\n\nThe Parthenon is a very old stone building in a country called Greece. It sits on a big flat hill in a city named Athens. It has many tall round poles called columns that hold up the roof. Long ago, people built it to say thank you to a goddess named Athena. Today, many people visit it to see the pretty white stone and learn about old times.
Particle\n\nA particle is a very tiny piece of stuff. It is so small you cannot see it with your eyes. Everything around you is made of particles. Some particles are bigger, like dust or powder. Other particles are so small they make up air and water. Inside every little thing, there are even smaller parts called atoms. Atoms have a center with even tinier bits inside. Scientists study particles to learn what the world is made of.
Particle Physics\n\nParticle physics is a kind of science. It looks at the tiniest bits that make up everything around us. These bits are so small you cannot see them with your eyes. Scientists use big machines to learn about them. It helps us know what the world is made of.
Partner\n\nA partner is someone you do things with. It can be a friend you play with at the park. It can be the person you sit next to in class and share crayons with. When you work on a puzzle together, you are partners. A partner helps you and you help them back.
Partnership\n\nA partnership is when two or more people work together. They share a job or a fun task. You can see a partnership when friends build a sandcastle together. They help each other and share the work. Sometimes grown-ups make a partnership to run a store or a shop. They share the money they make. A partnership works best when everyone is kind and helps.
Party\n\nA party is when people come together to have fun. It can be at a house, a park, or a big room. People play games, eat yummy food, and sometimes dance. There are often balloons, cake, and happy music. A birthday party is one kind you might know. Friends sing a song and the birthday child blows out candles.
Pass\n\nA pass is when you let someone go ahead of you. It can also mean a card or paper that lets you go into a place. You might see a pass at a bus or a train, where people show a card to get on. At school, you might need a hall pass to leave the room. In a game, you can pass a ball to a friend so they can play too.
Passenger pigeon\n\nA passenger pigeon was a kind of bird. It had a small head, a long tail, and soft gray and brown feathers. It lived in North America and flew in huge groups across the sky. A group could have more birds than you can count, and it took a long time for them all to fly past. People used to see it everywhere, but now there are none left. The very last one died many years ago.
Passerine\n\nA passerine is a kind of bird. It is small or not too big. It has feet that can hold on to a branch very well. You can find it in trees, bushes, or on the ground in many places around the world. It sings pretty songs that you can hear in the morning. A sparrow or a robin is a passerine you might see in your yard.
Passover\n\nPassover is a special holiday for Jewish people. It lasts for a whole week. During this time, they eat flat bread called matzah and tell the story of long ago. The story says that a man named Moses helped his people become free. They were slaves in a faraway land, and he led them out. Families sit together for a big meal and sing happy songs. Passover comes in spring, when flowers start to bloom.
Passport\n\nA passport is a small book that helps you travel to other countries. It has your picture and your name inside. A government gives it to you so other countries know who you are. When you go to a new country, a person at the border looks at it and may put a stamp in it. It helps you come back home too.
Password\n\nA password is a secret word or set of letters and numbers. It is like a key that only you know. You use it to open your tablet, a game, or a grown-up's computer. It keeps your things safe so only you can see them. Never tell your password to anyone except your mom or dad.
Past\n\nThe past is everything that has already happened. It is like a story that is finished. You cannot touch it or see it, but you can remember it. Yesterday is part of the past. When you were a baby is also the past. People who study the past are called history teachers. They look at old things and read old papers to learn what happened long ago. Some books and movies tell made-up stories about the past. They show kings, castles, or old trains. The past helps us know how we got here today.
Pasta\n\nPasta is a food made from flour and water. It comes in many shapes, like long strings, small tubes, or little bow-ties. People cook it in hot water until it gets soft. Then they eat it with a yummy sauce on top. You can find pasta at home for dinner or in a restaurant. Some pasta has eggs inside to make it taste richer.
Paste\n\nPaste is a soft, wet mix that you can spread. It is often white and feels a little sticky. You can find it in a jar at home or at school. People use it to stick paper together when they make art. When you glue two pieces of paper with paste, they stay stuck after it dries.
Pastry\n\nPastry is a soft dough used to make yummy baked foods. It is made from flour, butter, and sometimes eggs or sugar. You roll it out flat and thin. Then you can shape it into a pie, a tart, or a small sweet cake. People eat pastry as a treat or a snack. You can find it in a bakery or at a party. A fruit pie has a pastry crust on top and bottom.
Pat\n\nA pat is a soft, quick tap with an open hand. It is gentle and does not hurt. You can pat a dog on the head to show you like it. A mom might pat a baby's back to help it fall asleep. You can also pat your friend on the shoulder to say hello or good job.
Patagonia\n\nPatagonia is a big piece of land at the very bottom of South America. It has tall mountains with snow on top, wide flat lands, and a cold, windy coast by the sea. Many animals live there, like the guanaco that looks like a tall, fuzzy horse, and the Magellanic penguin that waddles near the water. You can also see big whales and seals in the ocean. It is a place where the sky feels very big and the land is mostly empty of people.
Patch\n\nA patch is a small piece of cloth or other material. It is flat and can be any shape, like a circle or a square. You can find a patch on clothes, bags, or blankets. It is used to cover a hole or a tear, or just to add a fun picture. For example, a patch with a star on a jacket makes it look cool.
Patent\n\nA patent is a special paper from the government. It says that a new idea belongs to the person who made it. If you make a new toy or a new tool, a patent stops other people from making or selling the same thing without asking you. You can let someone else use your idea if they pay you money. A patent lasts for many years, but after that, anyone can use the idea.
Path\n\nA path is a long, thin piece of ground that people walk on. It is often made of dirt, small stones, or hard ground. You can find a path in a park, a forest, or a garden. It helps you go from one place to another without getting lost. Sometimes a path goes next to a river or up a small hill. When you walk on a path, you can see flowers, trees, and maybe a little bug.
Pathogen\n\nA pathogen is a tiny living thing that can make you sick. It is so small you cannot see it with your eyes. Some kinds are viruses, some are bacteria, and some are tiny bugs. It can get inside your body and make you feel bad. Your body has helpers inside that fight it to keep you well. Washing your hands helps keep it away.
Patience\n\nPatience is when you wait without getting upset. It is a quiet feeling inside that helps you stay calm. You use it when you stand in a long line for a slide. You also use it when you wait for your turn with a toy. It can be hard, but it gets easier with practice.
Patient\n\nA patient is a person who is sick or hurt. They go to see a doctor or a nurse to get help. The doctor checks their body and gives them medicine to feel better. Sometimes a patient stays in a big building called a hospital. A patient might have a bandage on a cut or a cast on a broken arm. They rest a lot so their body can heal.
Patriotism\n\nPatriotism is a warm feeling of love for your own country. It is like a big hug in your heart for the place where you live. People show this feeling by singing songs about their country or waving its flag. It is not the same as wanting to take over other lands. A person who feels this way is called a patriot. They are happy when their country does good things.
Pattern\n\nA pattern is something that repeats in the same way. It can be a shape, a color, or a sound that happens again and again. You can see patterns on clothes, like stripes or dots. You can also find patterns in nature, like the spots on a butterfly or the rings on a tree. When you clap your hands in a beat, that is a pattern too. Patterns help us guess what comes next.
Pause\n\nA pause is a short stop. It is a little break in the middle of something. You can pause when you are talking, walking, or playing. It gives you a moment to rest or think. When you watch a show, you can press a button to pause it. The picture stops and waits for you. A pause is like taking a breath before you keep going.
Paw\n\nA paw is the soft foot of an animal like a dog or a cat. It has small pads on the bottom that feel like pillows. You can find it at the end of each leg. An animal uses it to walk, run, and play. When a dog gives you its paw, it feels warm and a little rough.
Pay\n\nPay means giving money to someone. It is what you do when you buy a toy or a snack. Mom and Dad get pay from their jobs. They use it to buy food, clothes, and a place to live. Sometimes you get a little pay for helping at home, like a coin for setting the table. Pay can be paper bills or round coins.
Pea\n\nA pea is a small, round, green seed that people eat as food. It grows inside a soft green shell called a pod. You can find peas in a garden or at the grocery store. People cook peas in hot water and eat them with a little butter and salt. Some peas are dried and made into warm soup. A pea is tiny, but it is full of good things that help you grow strong.
Peace\n\nPeace is a feeling of quiet and calm. It is like a still pond with no ripples. You can feel peace inside when you are happy and not worried. People also try to have peace between countries so there are no fights. When you share a toy with a friend, that is a small way to make peace.
Peaceful\n\nPeaceful is a calm and quiet feeling. It is how you feel when everything is soft and still, like when you are tucked in bed with your favorite blanket. You can find it in a quiet room or outside under a tree. When you feel peaceful, your body is relaxed and your mind is not busy. It is like the quiet after a rainstorm, when the sun comes out and the birds sing softly.
Peach\n\nA peach is a soft, sweet fruit that grows on a tree. It has a round shape and a fuzzy skin that is orange or yellow. Inside, the fruit is golden and juicy, with a big hard seed in the middle called a pit. You can find peaches in warm places, like gardens or farms. People eat them fresh, or use them to make pies and sweet treats. A peach without fuzz is called a nectarine.
Peafowl\n\nA peafowl is a big, pretty bird. It has a small head, a long neck, and a big body with strong legs. The boy bird is called a peacock. He has very long, shiny tail feathers with many bright colors like blue and green. He can lift his tail up and spread it out like a big fan. The girl bird is called a peahen. She has short, brown feathers that help her hide when she sits on her eggs. Peafowl live in warm places with trees and grass. They eat bugs, seeds, and green plants. You can see them in parks and gardens walking around. The peacock makes a loud call that sounds like a yell. When he wants a friend, he dances and shakes his tail to show off his pretty feathers.
Peak\n\nA peak is the very top of a mountain or hill. It is the highest point you can reach. From a peak, you can see far away in all directions. Some peaks are covered in snow all year. People like to climb to a peak because the view is beautiful.
Peanut\n\nA peanut is a small food that grows under the ground. It has a brown, bumpy shell. Inside the shell, there are two or three little seeds. The seeds are light yellow and have a thin red skin. Peanuts grow in warm places like Africa and South America. People eat them as a snack, often with salt. They also make peanut butter by mashing the seeds into a soft paste. Many kids like peanut butter on bread. Peanuts are not real nuts, but they taste buttery and good.
Pear\n\nA pear is a sweet fruit that grows on a tree. It has a round bottom and a thin top, like a teardrop. Its skin can be green, red, yellow, or brown. Inside, it is white, soft, and full of juice. You can eat it fresh or put it in pies and salads. People also make it into jam and juice. It tastes best when it is cool from the fridge.
Pearl\n\nA pearl is a small, shiny ball that grows inside a shell. It is often white, but can be pink, gray, or even black. It feels smooth and looks like a tiny moon. People find pearls in the ocean, inside animals called oysters. They use pearls to make pretty necklaces and rings. A pearl can be as small as a seed or as big as a marble. It is a gift from the sea.
Peasant\n\nA peasant is a person who worked on a farm a long time ago. They wore simple, rough clothes and lived in a small house. They worked very hard every day, planting food and taking care of animals. Most peasants could not read or write. They did not have much money, but they grew their own food to eat. A long time ago, many people were peasants.
Peat\n\nPeat is a soft, dark, muddy stuff from wet, spongy ground. It is made of old, dead plants that did not rot all the way. You can find it in big, flat, wet places called bogs. In some cold lands, people dig it up, dry it, and burn it to make a warm fire. It can also give a smoky taste to some drinks. When it is very dry, it can catch fire and burn for a long time.
Pebble\n\nA pebble is a tiny, smooth rock. It is round and small enough to fit in your hand. You can find it at the beach, by a river, or on a path. Water makes it smooth by rubbing it for a long, long time. A child might pick one up and put it in a pocket because it feels nice.
Pecan\n\nA pecan is a kind of nut that grows on a tree. It has a hard, brown shell on the outside. Inside, the nut is light brown with lines on it. You can find pecan trees in warm places. People crack the shell open to eat the nut inside. It tastes buttery and a little sweet. Many people use it to make a yummy pie called pecan pie.
Peccary\n\nA peccary is an animal that looks like a small pig. It has a round body, short legs, and a flat nose. It lives in warm places with trees and grass. It eats roots, bugs, and fruit. A peccary stays with its family group all day. It has a strong smell that helps it know its friends.
Peck\n\nA peck is a quick, light tap with a beak. It is what a bird does when it moves its head forward and taps something. You can see a bird peck at seeds on the ground or at a piece of bread. It uses its beak to pick up tiny bits of food. Sometimes a bird gives a soft peck to say hello or to check if something is safe.
Pedal\n\nA pedal is a flat part you push with your foot. It is found on a bike, a car, or a sewing machine. On a bike, you push it down to make the wheels turn. In a car, you push it to go faster or to stop. A sewing machine pedal makes the needle move up and down. It helps you do work without using your hands.
Pediatrics\n\nPediatrics is a kind of doctor job that helps babies, kids, and teenagers stay healthy. A doctor who does this job is called a pediatrician. They check how a child grows and give shots to stop bad sickness before it starts. They also teach moms and dads about good food and safe play. When a child feels sick, they find out what is wrong and help make it better. You might see one at a bright, friendly doctor's office with toys and books.
Peel\n\nTo peel means to take the outside skin off a fruit or a vegetable. You can do it with your fingers or with a small tool called a peeler. It is something you do before you eat a banana, an orange, or a potato. The skin comes off in long strips or small pieces. After you peel it, the inside is soft and ready to eat.
Peer\n\nA peer is a friend who is the same age as you. You see them at school, in your class, or at the playground. They play with you, share toys, and sit next to you at lunch. A peer can be a boy or a girl. You learn new games from them, and they learn from you too.
Peer pressure\n\nPeer pressure is when friends push you to act a certain way. It feels like a strong wish to be just like the people around you. You can find it at school, on the playground, or in any group of kids. It can make you do things you might not pick on your own, like trying a new game or sharing a snack. Sometimes it helps you do kind things, like saying sorry or helping a friend. But it can also push you to do things that are not safe, like running into the street. A good example is when everyone at lunch trades stickers, and you feel you must trade too, even if you love your sticker.
Pegasus\n\nPegasus is a horse with big wings. It is white and can fly high in the sky. It comes from very old Greek stories. A young man named Bellerophon once rode it with a special gold rein. Together they beat a scary fire-breathing beast. You might see a picture of it in a storybook about magic animals.
Pelican\n\nA pelican is a big bird that lives near water. It has a very long beak with a big stretchy bag under it. The bag looks like a soft pocket. It uses the bag to scoop up fish from the water. Then it tips its head to let the water out and swallows the fish. Most pelicans are white or light gray. Some are brown. You can see them at the beach or at a big lake.
Pelvis\n\nThe pelvis is a set of bones at the bottom of your body. It is shaped like a big bowl. You can feel it when you put your hands on your hips. It connects your legs to your back. It holds up your body when you stand, walk, or run. It also keeps some soft parts inside your tummy safe. In grown-up women, the pelvis is wider so a baby can come out when it is born.
Pen\n\nA pen is a tool for writing or drawing. It has a long body and a tip that puts ink onto paper. You can find pens at school, at home, or in an office. People use it to write words, draw pictures, or sign their name. A ballpoint pen is a common kind you might see every day. It has a tiny ball at the tip that rolls the ink out.
Pencil\n\nA pencil is a tool for writing and drawing. It has a thin, dark stick inside a wooden case. You hold it in your hand and move the tip across paper to make lines. The dark part is not real lead, but a soft black rock called graphite. You can find pencils at school, at home, and in art boxes. If you make a mistake, you can use a pink eraser on the end to rub it away. Many children use a pencil to learn letters and draw pictures of their family.
Pendulum\n\nA pendulum is a heavy thing that hangs from a string or a stick. It swings back and forth, left and right, over and over. You can see one in a big old clock on the wall. The heavy part at the bottom pulls it down, and it keeps swinging the same way each time. People use it to help clocks keep the right time.
Penguin\n\nA penguin is a bird that cannot fly. It has a white belly and a black back. It lives near cold water, like in Antarctica. It swims very well and uses its wings like flippers. It eats fish and other small sea animals. It lays eggs on land and keeps them warm with its body.
Peninsula\n\nA peninsula is a piece of land with water on three sides. It sticks out into a big lake or the sea. You can find peninsulas on maps, like the shape of Florida or Italy. People live on peninsulas, build houses, and go to the beach. If you stand on a peninsula, you see water almost all around you.
Pennsylvania\n\nPennsylvania is one of the 50 states in the United States. It is in the northeast part of the country. It has big cities like Philadelphia and a smaller capital called Harrisburg. It has many hills, forests, and rivers. Long ago, it was one of the first places where people fought to make America free. Today, many people live there and work in different jobs.
Penny\n\nA penny is a small, round coin. It is brown and flat, with a smooth edge. You can find it in a pocket, a piggy bank, or on the ground. People use it to buy tiny things or save it in a jar. One penny is worth one cent, which is the smallest amount of money.
Pension\n\nA pension is money that a person gets after they stop working. It comes every month, like a small gift for all the years they worked. Some people get it when they are old and their hair turns gray. Others get it if their body is too tired or hurt to work. The money helps them buy food, pay for a home, and get things they need. It is like a big thank-you from the place they worked at.
People\n\nPeople are living beings like you and me. They have two arms, two legs, a head with eyes, a nose, and a mouth. People live all over the world in houses, apartments, or huts. They talk, laugh, play, and help each other. A person can be a mom, a dad, a child, or a friend. You see people every day at home, at school, or on the street.
People's Republic of China\n\nThe People's Republic of China is a very big country in Asia. It has many people, more than any other country. Its capital city is Beijing, and Shanghai is its biggest city. It has tall mountains, long rivers, and big cities. People there speak Chinese and eat rice and noodles. A long, long wall called the Great Wall is in this country.
Pepper\n\nPepper is a small spice that comes from dried berries. It is black, white, or sometimes green or red. You find it in a little shaker on the kitchen table. People sprinkle it on food to make it taste a little hot and strong. It goes well with eggs, soup, and meat. A pepper shaker often has tiny holes on top.
Percentage\n\nA percentage is a way to talk about parts of a whole. It uses the number 100 to show how much. You see it with a little sign that looks like a line and two small circles: %. If you have a whole pizza cut into 100 tiny slices, a percentage tells you how many slices you have. It helps you compare things even when the whole is not the same size. For example, if you get 8 out of 10 on a test, that is 80%. It means you did as well as getting 80 out of 100.
Perception\n\nPerception is how your brain understands the world around you. It uses your eyes, ears, nose, tongue, and skin to collect clues. Your brain then puts these clues together to make a picture, a sound, a smell, a taste, or a feeling. For example, when you see a red apple, your eyes send a message to your brain, and your brain says, "That is a red apple!"
Perch\n\nA perch is a fish that lives in fresh water like lakes and rivers. It has a round body and rough scales. It has two fins on its back—one is sharp and one is soft. It also has fins on its sides and a tail fin to help it swim fast. You can find it in ponds and streams in many parts of the world. It eats small fish, bugs, and tiny water animals. People like to catch perch for fun and also eat it because it tastes good.
Percussion instrument\n\nA percussion instrument is something you hit or shake to make music. It can be a big drum that goes boom, or small sticks you tap together. You find it in a band, at a parade, or in music class at school. When you hit it with your hand or a stick, it makes a sound. A drum is one kind of percussion instrument. You might have a little tambourine at home that jingles when you shake it.
Peregrine falcon\n\nA peregrine falcon is a fast bird that hunts other birds. It has a blue-gray back, a white chest with dark lines, and a black head that looks like it has a mustache. You can find it in many places around the world, near tall cliffs or even on big city buildings. It dives down from the sky faster than any other animal. A long time ago, a bad chemical hurt its eggs, but now people help keep it safe.
Perfect\n\nPerfect means something is as good as it can be. It has no mistakes and nothing is missing. When you draw a circle that is very round, it looks perfect. A sunny day with a blue sky can feel perfect. When you finish a puzzle and every piece fits, that is perfect too.
Perform\n\nTo perform means to do something in front of people who watch. It can be singing a song, dancing, or acting in a play. You might see someone perform on a stage at school or on TV. When you clap your hands after, it makes the person feel happy.
Performance\n\nPerformance is when someone does something in front of people who watch. It can be singing a song, dancing, or acting in a play. You might see a performance at school, on a stage, or on TV. The people who watch clap their hands when they like it. A birthday party with a magic show is a kind of performance.
Performing arts\n\nPerforming arts are shows where people use their body, face, and voice to tell a story or share a feeling. It is not like a painting or a statue, because the person is the art. You can see it on a stage with bright lights. People sing, dance, act, or do magic tricks. A play at school is a kind of performing arts. When you watch a movie, the actors are doing performing arts too.
Perfume\n\nPerfume is a liquid that smells very nice. It comes in a pretty bottle. People put a little bit on their neck or wrist to smell good all day. It is made from flowers, fruits, or special oils. Some perfume smells like a rose, and some smells like a lemon. When you hug someone who wears it, you can smell the sweet scent.
Period\n\nA period is a dot at the end of a sentence. It tells you to stop reading for a tiny moment. You see it in books, on signs, and in your school work. When you write, you put a period to show the thought is done. It is like a red light for words.
Periodic\n\nPeriodic means something happens again and again in a pattern. It is like the way the sun comes up every morning and goes down every night. You see it in the seasons: spring, summer, fall, winter, then spring again. A clock shows a periodic tick-tock sound. When you clap your hands in a steady beat, that is periodic too.
Periodic Table\n\nThe periodic table is a big chart that shows all the tiny building blocks of everything around us. It has many little boxes, each with a name and a number. You can find it on a wall in a science room at school. Scientists use it to learn about different kinds of stuff, like the air we breathe or the water we drink. It helps them know how things mix and change. The shiny metal in a spoon and the gas that makes a balloon float are both on the chart.
Permafrost\n\nPermafrost is ground that stays frozen all year long. It is like dirt and rocks that never get warm. You can find it in very cold places near the North Pole and the South Pole. It also sits on top of tall mountains where the air is chilly. When it melts, it lets out a gas that can make the air around us too warm. That is not good for the Earth.
Permit\n\nA permit is a special paper that says you can do something. It is like a note from a grown-up that gives you a yes. You might see a permit when someone wants to build a new house or open a lemonade stand. It helps keep people safe by making sure rules are followed. Without it, you might have to stop what you are doing.
Perseus\n\nPerseus is a brave hero from very old Greek stories. He is the son of a god named Zeus and a kind woman named Dana. He is most known for cutting off the head of a scary monster called Medusa. She had snakes for hair, and looking at her face could turn you into stone. With magic shoes that let him fly and a shiny shield, he was able to beat her. On his way home, he saved a princess named Andromeda from a big sea monster. He married her and they lived together. Perseus is also part of a big family of heroes.
Persian Gulf\n\nThe Persian Gulf is a big body of water in a hot, sandy part of the world. It is long and wide, with blue water that is not very deep. Many countries sit next to it, like Iran and Saudi Arabia. It has many fish and pretty rocks under the water called coral. People also find shiny pearls inside shells there. Big boats carry oil from the ground under the water. This oil helps make gas for cars.
Persian language\n\nPersian language is a way people talk and write. It is used in a country called Iran and some other places. People who speak it use letters that look different from English letters. It sounds soft and has many pretty poems. You might hear it in songs or stories from far away.
Persian literature\n\nPersian literature is stories and poems from a land called Iran. It is very old — more than a thousand years. Some of it is poetry that sounds like a song when you say it out loud. Other parts are long stories written in books. Long ago, people wrote it by hand on paper. Today, children in Iran still read some of these old stories in school.
Person\n\nA person is a human being, like you and me. They have a head, two arms, two legs, and a body. People live all over the world in houses, apartments, or other homes. They can walk, talk, think, and feel happy or sad. Every person is special and different. You see people every day—your family, friends, and neighbors.
Personal\n\nPersonal means something that belongs to one person. It is not for everyone to share. Your toothbrush is personal. Your bed is personal. Your name is personal. A diary is a book where you write personal thoughts. You keep personal things in a special spot, like a box or a drawer. No one should touch your personal things without asking.
Personal computer\n\nA personal computer is a machine that helps you do many things. It has a screen that shows pictures and words. You use a keyboard to type and a mouse to point and click. It sits on a desk at home or in school. People use it to write, draw, play games, and talk to friends far away. Inside it has tiny parts that think and remember for you.
Personal name\n\nA personal name is a special word that tells people who you are. It is made of two parts: a first name and a last name. Your mom and dad pick your name when you are born. They may choose a name that has a happy meaning. Every child in the world has the right to a name. When you meet a new friend, you learn their name so you can call them.
Personal protective equipment\n\nPersonal protective equipment is special clothing and gear that keeps people safe. It covers parts of the body like hands, eyes, and feet. You can see it on firefighters, doctors, and builders at work. It stops cuts, burns, and germs from hurting the person. A helmet is one kind that protects the head.
Personality\n\nPersonality is the way a person acts and feels most of the time. It is like a special mix of things that makes each person different. You can see it in how someone plays, talks, or shares. Some people are quiet, and some are loud. Some like to run fast, and some like to sit and draw. A person's personality can change a little bit as they grow up, but it takes a long time.
Perspective (graphical)\n\nPerspective is a way of drawing that makes things look far or near. It uses lines that come together at one point on the paper. When you draw a road, it looks wide at the bottom and narrow at the top. That is perspective. It helps a flat picture look deep, like a real place. You can see it in storybooks and cartoons.
Peru\n\nPeru is a country in South America. It has tall mountains called the Andes, and a big jungle where many rivers start. Long ago, a group called the Inca lived there and built stone cities high up. One famous old city is Machu Picchu. Today, people in Peru speak Spanish, and many also speak Quechua. They grow potatoes, and there are thousands of kinds. The food is tasty, with dishes like fish cooked in lemon juice. Many people visit to see the old stones and the pretty nature.
Pesticide\n\nA pesticide is a strong liquid or powder that people use to stop bugs and weeds. It can be sprayed on plants at a farm or in a garden. It kills tiny bugs that eat the leaves and fruit. But it can also hurt good bugs like bees. If it gets into rivers or lakes, the water can become dirty and make fish sick. Some people use soapy water or pick bugs off by hand instead.
Pet\n\nA pet is an animal that lives with people at home. It is not for work or for food. People keep it to love and play with. A pet can be soft and furry, like a dog or a cat. It can also swim in water, like a fish. Some pets are small and run in a wheel, like a hamster. You can find a pet in many houses. It sleeps in a cozy bed or a cage. People feed it every day and give it water. They also take it to the doctor when it feels sick. A pet makes people happy when they feel sad. A dog can wag its tail and lick your hand. A cat can purr and sit on your lap. A fish can swim around and look pretty. Many children have a pet at home to be their friend.
Petal\n\nA petal is a soft, flat part of a flower. It is often bright and pretty, like red, yellow, or pink. You can see petals on roses, daisies, and tulips in a garden. It helps bring bees and butterflies to the flower. When you touch a petal, it feels smooth and light.
Peter Pan\n\nPeter Pan is a boy from a story. He can fly and never grows up. He lives on a far-away island with his friends, the Lost Boys. A tiny fairy named Tinker Bell stays by his side. He fights a mean pirate called Captain Hook. Peter Pan flies by thinking happy thoughts. You can see him in a Disney movie.
Petra\n\nPetra is a very old city made of stone. It sits in a valley between big hills in a country called Jordan. Long ago, people carved houses and steps right into the red rock walls. It was a busy place where traders stopped with their camels. Today, many people visit Petra to see the tall stone buildings and walk through a narrow path in the rock. It is a special place that the whole world wants to keep safe.
Petroleum\n\nPetroleum is a thick, black liquid found deep under the ground. It is also called crude oil. People drill big holes to bring it up from rocks. It is used to make gas for cars, fuel for airplanes, and black sticky stuff for roads. It is very important because it gives us energy to move and go places.
Pharaoh\n\nA pharaoh was a king or queen of Egypt a very long time ago. He or she wore a tall crown and held a stick called a scepter. The pharaoh lived in a big house and made rules for all the people. He or she was also a leader for prayers and big shows. Today, we can see old pictures and statues of pharaohs in museums. One famous pharaoh was a boy named King Tut.
Pharmacist\n\nA pharmacist is a person who gives medicine to people. He works in a store called a pharmacy or in a big hospital. He knows a lot about pills and liquids that help you feel better. When you are sick, a doctor writes a note for medicine, and the pharmacist reads it. He counts out the right pills and puts them in a bottle. He tells you how to take the medicine and what it might make you feel like. He can also give you a shot to keep you from getting sick, like a flu shot. If you have a sore throat or a cold, he can help you pick a medicine from the shelf. He checks everything very carefully so you get the right thing.
Pharmacy\n\nA pharmacy is a store where people get medicine. It has shelves with bottles, boxes, and tubes. You can find a pharmacy in a town or inside a big hospital. The person who works there is called a pharmacist. They help you pick the right medicine when you feel sick. Some medicine you can buy right away. Other medicine needs a special note from a doctor called a prescription. Many pharmacies also sell soap, band-aids, and things to keep you clean and pretty.
Phase change\n\nA phase change is when something turns from one kind of stuff into another. It can be a hard solid, like ice, that gets warm and turns into a wet liquid, like water. If you heat the water more, it turns into a gas you cannot see, called steam. When the gas cools down, it can turn back into a liquid, and then back into a solid. You can see this happen with an ice cube on a hot day.
Pheasant\n\nA pheasant is a big bird with bright, colorful feathers. It has a long tail that can be very pretty. The boy pheasant is bigger and has more colors than the girl pheasant. It lives in fields and woods, and you might see it walking on the ground looking for seeds to eat. Some people hunt it, but that can make it hard for it to stay safe. It is not just one kind of bird—it is a name for many birds that look alike.
Philadelphia\n\nPhiladelphia is a big city in the United States. It has many old buildings and a bell called the Liberty Bell. A long time ago, it was the capital of the country. Today, many people live there and visit to see the old places. You can find big parks, a zoo, and a museum with old art. It is near a river, and you can cross a bridge to another state.
Philippine Sea\n\nThe Philippine Sea is a big body of water. It is part of the big ocean called the Pacific. It sits next to the Philippines and Taiwan. It touches Japan up north and Palau down south. Big boats sail on it to carry things from one place to another. Many fish and other sea animals live in it.
Philippines\n\nThe Philippines is a country made of many islands. It sits in the warm ocean near Asia. It has over seven thousand islands, so you can see water and beaches almost everywhere. People live on big islands and small islands. The biggest island is called Luzon, and the capital city, Manila, is there. Many people ride boats to go from one island to another. The weather is hot and rainy, and sometimes big storms called typhoons come. You can find tall mountains, green forests, and volcanoes that still smoke. Children there play games, go to school, and eat rice and fish with their families.
Philodendron\n\nA philodendron is a green plant that people keep inside their homes. It has big, flat leaves that are often shaped like a heart. It grows fast and does not need a lot of care. You can put it in a pot by a window, and it will climb up a stick or hang down. It helps make the air in a room clean and fresh.
Philosophy\n\nPhilosophy is thinking about big questions. It asks things like: What is real? How do we know things? What is right and wrong? People who do this thinking are called philosophers. They use their minds to wonder about the world and our lives. A long time ago, a man named Plato asked these kinds of questions. You can do philosophy too when you ask why the sky is blue or why we share toys.
Phobia\n\nA phobia is a very big, strong fear of one thing. It is not just a little scared feeling. It makes a person want to stay far away from that thing. If they cannot get away, they feel very upset inside. Some people have a phobia of spiders. Some have a phobia of high places. A phobia can make it hard to play or be with friends. Doctors can help a person feel less scared over time.
Phoenicia\n\nPhoenicia was a place a long, long time ago. It sat next to a big blue sea. People there built strong boats from wood. They sailed far away to trade things like purple cloth and glass. Today, that place is part of other lands with new names.
Phoenix (mythology)\n\nA phoenix is a magic bird from very old stories. It has bright red and gold feathers, and it looks as big as an eagle. People in many lands tell stories about it. When it gets very old, it makes a nest of sweet-smelling sticks and sets itself on fire. Then a new, young bird rises from the warm ashes. It is a sign of starting over and living a long, long time.
Phone\n\nA phone is a small machine that lets you talk to someone far away. It has a screen and buttons you can touch. You can find it in a house, a pocket, or a bag. People use it to call a friend, send a message, or look at pictures. Some phones can play music or show a map. A phone you carry around is called a cell phone.
Photo\n\nA photo is a picture made with a camera. It shows a moment that happened, like a smile or a birthday cake. You can see photos on a phone, in a book, or on a wall. People take photos to remember fun times. When you look at a photo, you can see people, places, and things just as they were.
Photocopier\n\nA photocopier is a big machine that makes copies of paper. It has a flat glass top where you put the paper you want to copy. You find it in schools, offices, and stores. When you press a button, a bright light moves under the glass and it prints the same words or pictures on a new piece of paper. It helps people share the same page with many friends.
Photographic film\n\nPhotographic film is a thin, bendy sheet that holds pictures. It is kept inside a small dark box so light does not touch it. You put it inside a camera to take a photo. When you press the button, light hits the film and makes a hidden picture. Later, a grown-up uses special water to make the picture show up on paper. One roll of film can hold many pictures, but you can only use it one time.
Photography\n\nPhotography is a way to make pictures with a camera. A camera is a box with a hole and a special glass piece called a lens. It lets light in to make a picture. You press a button to open a tiny door inside. The door opens and shuts very fast to catch the light. The picture can be saved on a small card or on a roll called film. People use it to take photos of their family, pets, or a sunny day at the park.
Photojournalism\n\nPhotojournalism is taking pictures to tell a story. It uses a camera to show what is happening in the world. You can see it in newspapers, magazines, and on TV. A photojournalist goes to big events, like a parade or a sports game, and takes photos. The photos help people understand the news. For example, a picture of a fire truck at a burning house tells a story without words.
Photon\n\nA photon is a tiny bit of light. It is so small you cannot see it with your eyes. It comes from the sun, a lamp, or a flashlight. It moves very, very fast. When many photons hit your eye, you see bright things.
Photosynthesis\n\nPhotosynthesis is how plants make their own food. It happens in the green parts of a plant, like the leaves. The plant uses sunlight, water from the ground, and air to do it. It makes a kind of sugar that helps the plant grow big and strong. It also puts fresh air back out for people and animals to breathe. You can see it working when a plant sits in the sun and looks happy and green.
Phrase\n\nA phrase is a small group of words that work together. It is not a full sentence because it does not have a complete idea. You can find phrases in books, on signs, and when people talk. It helps add more meaning to a word. For example, 'the big red ball' is a phrase that tells you more about the ball.
Physic\n\nPhysic is an old word for medicine or a kind of plant that helps sick people feel better. It can be a drink or a pill made from leaves or roots. Long ago, people used physic when they had a tummy ache or a fever. Today, we say medicine more often, but physic means the same thing. You might see it in a story about a doctor from long ago.
Physical\n\nPhysical means your body. It is how your body moves, feels, and grows. You use your body when you run, jump, or dance. Eating good food and sleeping help your body stay strong. Playing outside is a fun way to move your body.
Physical Chemistry\n\nPhysical chemistry is a kind of science. It looks at how tiny bits of stuff move and change. It helps us know why water turns to ice when it gets cold. It also tells us why a cake rises in the oven. Scientists use it to make new things like better batteries.
Physical Cosmology\n\nPhysical cosmology is a big idea about the whole sky and everything in it. It is the way grown-ups try to understand how the stars, the sun, the moon, and our world all began. They look far into the dark night sky with strong tools to see tiny lights. They think about how everything moves and changes over a very, very long time. It is like a giant story of where we all came from.
Physical disability\n\nA physical disability is when a part of the body does not work the same as most people's. It can make it hard to walk, see, hear, or move an arm or leg. Some people are born with it, and some get it after an accident or sickness. You might see a person using a wheelchair to move around. That is one example of a physical disability. Another example is a person who cannot see well and uses a white stick to walk. People with a physical disability can do many things, just sometimes in a different way.
Physical examination\n\nA physical examination is when a doctor or nurse looks at your body to see if you are healthy. It happens in a clean room with a soft bed. The doctor uses a light to look in your eyes, ears, and mouth. They also listen to your heart and breathing with a cold tool on your chest. They may tap your knee to make your leg jump. This check helps find any hurts or sickness early. You might have one before starting school or playing a sport.
Physical exercise\n\nPhysical exercise is moving your body to stay healthy and strong. It can be running, jumping, dancing, or playing outside. You can do it at a park, at home, or at school. It makes your heart beat faster and your muscles grow. After you exercise, you may feel happy and sleep better at night. Playing tag with friends is one fun way to exercise.
Physical fitness\n\nPhysical fitness is how well your body can move and play. It means your heart, muscles, and bones are strong and healthy. You can find it when you run, jump, climb, or dance. It helps you play longer without getting too tired. For example, when you chase a friend at the park, your body is using physical fitness.
Physical geography\n\nPhysical geography is about the land, water, and air around us. It looks at big things like mountains, rivers, and deserts. It also looks at the weather and how plants and animals live in different places. You can see it when you go to a beach or climb a hill. It helps us know why some places are hot and some are cold. People use it to decide where to build houses and farms.
Physician\n\nA physician is a person who helps sick people feel better. She wears a white coat and uses a tool to listen to your heart and breathing. You can find her in a hospital, a small doctor's office, or sometimes she comes to your home. She asks you where it hurts and looks at your body to find out what is wrong. She may give you medicine or tell you to rest so you get well. When you have a fever or a cough, your mom or dad takes you to see her.
Physics\n\nPhysics is the science of how things move and work. It looks at big things like stars and small things like tiny bits called atoms. It studies pushes and pulls, like when you roll a ball or drop a toy. You see physics when a swing goes back and forth or when a magnet sticks to the fridge. It helps people build cars, planes, and phones.
Physiology\n\nPhysiology is the study of how living things work. It looks at what happens inside a body, like how a heart beats or how lungs breathe. You can find it in books and at school when you learn about your body. It helps doctors know why you get sick and how to make you better. When you run fast and feel your heart thump, that is part of physiology.
Pi\n\nPi is a special number that helps us talk about circles. It is always the same number, no matter how big or small the circle is. You can find it when you measure around a circle and across the middle. It starts with 3.14 and the numbers go on forever without stopping. People use it to figure out how big a circle is or how far it is around. Some people even have a fun day for it on March 14, because that date looks like 3-14.
Piano\n\nA piano is a big music box with black and white keys. It has a wooden body and a row of keys you press with your fingers. You can find it in homes, schools, and concert halls. When you press a key, a soft hammer inside hits a string and makes a sound. It can play soft, quiet notes or loud, happy notes. Many people learn to play songs on it.
Pick\n\nA pick is a tool with a long handle and a sharp point. It is used to break hard things like rocks or hard ground. You might see a pick in a garden or at a building site. A person swings it to make a hole or to break something apart. It looks a little like a big hammer with a pointy end.
Pickling\n\nPickling is a way to keep food fresh for a long time. It uses a sour liquid called vinegar or very salty water. The food sits in this liquid inside a closed jar. It changes the taste, making the food sour or salty. You can find pickled cucumbers at the store, and people call them pickles. Some people also pickle onions, eggs, or carrots. The sour liquid stops tiny bugs that make food go bad, so the food stays good for many months.
Picnic\n\nA picnic is a meal you eat outside. It is often on a blanket on the grass. You can have it in a park, at the beach, or in your backyard. People bring food in a basket or a bag. They eat sandwiches, fruit, and cookies. A picnic is fun with family or friends. You can play games after you eat.
Picture\n\nA picture is something you look at that shows a person, a place, or a thing. It can be made with a camera, a brush, or a pencil. You can see it on paper, on a wall, or on a screen. A picture helps you remember a happy day or learn how to do something new. When you draw a sun with crayons, that is a picture too.
Pie\n\nA pie is a baked food with a crust on the outside and yummy stuff inside. It is often round and flat, like a big cookie. You can find it in a bakery or at home after someone bakes it. People eat it as a snack or for dessert. Some pies have fruit inside, like apple or cherry. Other pies have meat and vegetables inside. You might see a pie at a birthday party or a holiday dinner.
Piece\n\nA piece is a small part of something bigger. It can be a bit of a puzzle, a slice of cake, or a part of a toy. When you break a cookie, each little bit is a piece. You can put pieces together to make a whole thing again.
Pier\n\nA pier is a long path that goes out over the water. It is made of wood or hard stone. You can walk on it and look down at the waves. Some piers have little shops or places to eat. People like to fish from it or watch boats go by. At the beach, you might see a pier with a big wheel that spins around.
Pig\n\nA pig is a big animal with a round body and short legs. It has a flat nose, small eyes, and a curly tail. Pigs live on farms all over the world. They eat plants and other things, like corn and special food. A pig is very smart and can learn games. It rolls in mud to stay cool and keep bugs away. A baby pig is called a piglet. Some people keep small pigs as pets.
Piggy\n\nA piggy is a small, round animal with a pink, soft body. It has four short legs, a curly tail, and a flat nose. You can find it on a farm, where it lives in a pen with other piggies. It likes to roll in mud to stay cool and clean. A piggy makes a loud oink sound when it is happy or hungry. Many children know a piggy from a toy bank where they put coins to save money.
Pigment\n\nA pigment is a powder that gives color to other things. It can come from rocks, plants, or animals. People mix it into paint, crayons, or clay to make them bright. For example, a blue pigment can make a blue crayon. You see it every day in the colors of your toys and drawings.
Pile\n\nA pile is a group of things put on top of each other. It can be a pile of books, a pile of leaves, or a pile of toys. You can make a pile by putting one thing on top of another. A pile can be big or small. When you clean your room, you might put all your blocks in a pile. It is a simple way to keep things together.
Pilgrimage\n\nA pilgrimage is a long trip to a special place. It is a trip that people take because of their faith or beliefs. The place is often far away, in a different city or country. People walk or ride to get there. They may pray or think quiet thoughts along the way. Some pilgrimages are not about faith, but about a place that is important to a person or a group.
Pill\n\nA pill is a tiny, hard thing you swallow. It is round or oval and very small. You find it in a bottle at home or at the doctor's office. It has medicine inside to help you feel better when you are sick. A grown-up gives you one pill with a cup of water. You should never take a pill by yourself.
Pillar\n\nA pillar is a tall, strong post that holds something up. It is often round or square and made of stone, wood, or metal. You can see pillars holding up the roof of a big building, like a church or a museum. Some pillars are plain, and some have pretty shapes carved into them. A pillar helps keep the building from falling down.
Pillow\n\nA pillow is a soft thing you put your head on when you sleep. It is made of cloth and filled with soft stuff like feathers or fluffy cotton. It is usually shaped like a rectangle. You find it on a bed, and it has a cover called a pillowcase to keep it clean. When you lie down at night, it helps your head and neck feel cozy. Many kids hug a pillow when they go to sleep.
Pilot\n\nA pilot is a person who flies an airplane. He sits in the front of the plane in a special seat with many buttons and screens. You can see him at the airport when you go on a trip. He wears a uniform with stripes on the sleeves. He talks to people on the ground to know where to go. He makes the plane go up, down, and turn. He keeps everyone safe in the sky.
Pin\n\nA pin is a small, thin piece of metal. It has a sharp point at one end and a flat or round top at the other. You can find it in a sewing box or on a desk. People use it to hold pieces of cloth or paper together. A pin can also be a shiny badge you wear on your shirt.
Pinball\n\nPinball is a fun game you play on a big machine. It has a glass top, and inside there is a slanted board with bumpers, lights, and holes. You press buttons on the sides to move flippers that hit a small metal ball. The ball bounces around and you try to keep it from falling down a hole at the bottom. When the ball hits bumpers and targets, you get points. You can see pinball machines at arcades or fun places with games.
Pinch\n\nA pinch is when you squeeze a little bit of skin or something soft between your thumb and finger. It can feel like a tiny, quick press. Sometimes a grown-up gives a gentle pinch on your cheek to show they like you. You might pinch a piece of play dough to make it flat. A pinch does not hurt much, but it can make you say "ouch" if it is too hard.
Pine\n\nA pine is a tall tree with thin, pointy leaves called needles. It stays green all year, even in winter. It has a straight brown trunk and branches that spread out high up. You can find it in forests, parks, and sometimes in your own yard. It grows a woody cone that holds seeds inside. The cone opens when it is warm to let the seeds fall out. Some cones need a fire to open. People use the wood to build houses and make paper. At Christmas, many families bring a small pine inside and put lights on it.
Pineapple\n\nA pineapple is a sweet, yellow fruit. It has a rough, spiky outside that looks a bit like a pine cone. Inside, it is soft and juicy. It grows in warm places where the sun shines a lot. People eat it as a snack or put it in drinks and cakes. It tastes both sweet and a little sour. You can find it at the grocery store, often with its green, pointy leaves on top.
Pink\n\nPink is a light, soft color. It looks like red mixed with white. You can see it on flowers, candy, and sometimes on a baby's blanket. Many people use pink to make things look sweet and pretty. A pig is pink, and so is cotton candy at the fair.
Pioneer\n\nA pioneer is a person who goes first to a new place. He or she walks where no one has walked before. Pioneers often travel to wild lands with no roads or houses. They build new homes and towns for other people to come later. A long time ago, pioneers crossed big fields and mountains in wagons. They worked very hard to make a new life.
Pip\n\nA pip is a small, hard seed inside a fruit. It is often brown or black and feels smooth. You find it when you eat an apple, an orange, or a grape. If you put a pip in the ground, it can grow into a new plant. Some pips are safe to eat, but others are not, so always ask a grown-up.
Pipe\n\nA pipe is a long, round tube that is empty inside. It can be made of metal, plastic, or clay. You can find pipes under the sink in your kitchen or bathroom. Water moves through a pipe to get to the faucet. When you turn on the water, it comes out because a pipe brings it there.
Pipe (material)\n\nA pipe is a long, round, empty tube. It is hard and stays in one place. People use it to carry water or other things from one spot to another. You can see pipes under the sink in your kitchen or bathroom. Water comes out of the faucet because a pipe brings it there.
Pipe organ\n\nA pipe organ is a big music maker with many pipes. It has one or more keyboards for the hands and a pedal board for the feet. You find it in big churches or halls. A person plays it to make loud, beautiful music. The sound comes from air blowing through pipes of different sizes.
Pipeline\n\nA pipeline is a very long, round tube. It is made of strong metal. It carries things like water, oil, or gas from one place to another, sometimes very far away. Some pipelines even carry thick mud with tiny bits of rock inside. You might see a big pipe at a sports game that brings a drink from a big tank to the cups. It works like a secret road under the ground or inside walls.
Piranha\n\nA piranha is a small, sharp-toothed fish that lives in warm rivers and lakes. It has a flat, round body and a mouth full of tiny, pointy teeth. It lives in South America, in places where the water is warm. It eats meat, like other fish or small animals that fall into the water. It moves in big groups called schools. Many people think it is a very fast and scary fish, but it is also food for bigger animals like birds and turtles.
Pirate\n\nA pirate is a person who steals things from ships at sea. He often has a big hat, an eye patch, and a hook for a hand. You can find stories about him in books and movies. He sails on a big boat with a black flag that has a skull and crossbones. He looks for treasure like gold and jewels. Sometimes he has a parrot on his shoulder.
Pit\n\nA pit is a deep hole in the ground. It can be big or small, and it is open at the top. You might see a pit at a playground or in a forest. Sometimes people dig a pit to plant a tree or to find water. Animals like rabbits can dig a pit to make a home. Be careful near a pit so you do not fall in.
Pixel\n\nA pixel is a tiny dot of color. It is a small square on a screen. Many pixels together make a picture. Each pixel has its own color. You see pixels on a TV, a tablet, or a phone. When you look very close, you can see the little squares.
Pizza\n\nPizza is a round, flat food that people love to eat. It has a soft bread bottom called the crust. On top of the crust, there is red sauce made from tomatoes. Then, people put cheese and other yummy things on it. You can find pizza in restaurants, at parties, or in the freezer at the grocery store. Many kids eat it for dinner or at birthday parties. Some pizzas have just cheese, and some have little round meats called pepperoni.
Place\n\nA place is a spot where something is or where something happens. It can be a room, a park, a store, or your own bed. You can point to a place with your finger. Some places are big, like a beach, and some are small, like a chair. Every day you go to many places, like the kitchen for breakfast or the playground to swing.
Place value\n\nPlace value is a way to know how much a number is worth. It looks at where a number sits in a line. The same number can mean different things if it sits in a different spot. For example, in the number 25, the 2 is in the tens spot, so it means twenty. The 5 is in the ones spot, so it means five. You see place value when you count money or read big numbers.
Plaice\n\nA plaice is a flat fish that lives in the sea. It has both eyes on one side of its head, and its body is very thin. It lies on the sandy bottom of the ocean, where it is hard to see because its top side looks like sand. People catch it to eat, and you might see it at a fish market or in a picture book about sea animals.
Plain\n\nA plain is a big, flat piece of land. It has no tall hills or bumpy mountains. You can see far across it because the ground is so smooth. Farmers like plains because the flat land is good for growing food like wheat and corn. Many animals, like cows and horses, live on plains and eat the grass. Some plains are so big they stretch farther than your eyes can see.
Plan\n\nA plan is a list of steps you make before you do something. It is like a map in your head that shows what to do first, next, and last. You can find a plan in your mind when you think about your day. People use a plan to get ready for a trip, a party, or a fun game. For example, before you build a block tower, you might plan which blocks to put at the bottom.
Plane\n\nA plane is a big machine that flies in the sky. It has two long wings, a tail, and big engines that make a loud sound. You can see a plane at an airport, where people get on and off. It takes people and things to faraway places very fast. When you look up, you might see a tiny white line behind a plane high in the blue sky.
Plane (tool)\n\nA plane is a tool that makes wood smooth and flat. It has a sharp metal blade inside a hard body. When you push it over a bumpy piece of wood, it cuts off thin, curly strips. The blade is held at a steady angle so the wood feels soft and even. People who build things with wood use it in a workshop. Long ago, the body was made of wood and the blade was made of bronze or iron. Today, many planes have a metal body. Some are big and some are small, for different jobs.
Planet\n\nA planet is a big, round ball that moves around a star. It does not make its own light, but it shines by bouncing light from a star. You can see some planets in the night sky. They look like bright dots that do not twinkle much. Earth is the planet we live on. It is the only one we know has water, air, and life. Other planets near us are Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. Some planets are hot, and some are very cold. People use big tools called telescopes to look at planets far away.
Planetary system\n\nA planetary system is a family in space. It has a big bright star in the middle, and planets that go around the star. Our own Solar System is one example. The Sun is our star, and Earth is one of the planets that goes around it. Many other stars in the night sky also have planets going around them. Some stars have just one planet, and some have many. Scientists look at these systems with big telescopes to learn about faraway worlds.
Plankton\n\nPlankton are tiny living things that float in the ocean. They are so small that you need a tool to see them. They drift with the water because they cannot swim against the waves. Many fish and big whales eat them for food. Plankton live near the top of the water where the sun shines.
Plant\n\nA plant is a living thing that grows in the ground. It has roots that hold it in the soil and drink water. It has a stem that stands up tall, and leaves that catch sunlight. It uses sunlight, water, and air to make its own food. Many plants have flowers that turn into fruits with seeds inside. You can see plants in gardens, parks, and forests. A tiny seed can grow into a big tree.
Plant breeding\n\nPlant breeding is a way people help plants change. It means picking the best plants and using their seeds to grow new ones. Farmers and gardeners do this to get plants that make more food, stay healthy, or grow in hot or dry places. Long ago, people started by saving seeds from the biggest and tastiest plants. Today, people also use science to mix plants and make new kinds. You might see a big, red tomato at the store — that came from plant breeding.
Plant reproduction\n\nPlant reproduction is how plants make new baby plants. It can happen in two ways. One way needs two parent plants, like a mom and a dad. The baby plant gets a little bit from each parent. The other way needs only one parent plant. The baby plant is just like the parent. A piece of a plant, like a stem or a leaf, can grow into a whole new plant. People can help by cutting a small part and putting it in dirt. This is a simple way to get more plants.
Plant stem\n\nA plant stem is the long part of a plant that holds it up. It has little bumps called nodes where leaves and flowers grow. You can see stems in your garden or in a park. It carries water and food from the ground to the rest of the plant. A thick stem on a tree is called a trunk. Some stems are soft and green, like on a flower. Other stems are hard and brown, like on a big tree.
Plantain\n\nA plantain is a fruit that looks like a big banana. It is green or yellow and feels hard. You find it in warm places, like near the ocean. People cook it before they eat it, because it is not sweet like a soft banana. They boil it, fry it, or bake it. Some people use its big green leaves as plates for food.
Plasma\n\nPlasma is a kind of hot, glowing gas. It is made when gas gets so hot that tiny bits inside it break apart. You can see it in lightning during a storm. It is also inside the sun and all the stars that shine at night. People use it in flat TV screens and in long, bright lights called neon signs. It can be many colors, like blue, pink, or white.
Plastic\n\nPlastic is a material that can be made into many shapes. It is often light and can be hard or bendy. You see it in toys, bottles, bags, and cups. People use it to make things that are easy to carry and clean. A plastic toy is something you might play with every day.
Plastic surgery\n\nPlastic surgery is a kind of doctor work that changes how a body looks or works. It can fix parts that are hurt, like skin after a bad burn. It can also change parts to make them look different, like pulling face skin tight so a person looks younger. Doctors do this work in a big clean room called a hospital. They use special tools to help the body heal or change shape.
Plate\n\nA plate is a flat round thing that holds food. It can be made of hard clay, plastic, or paper. You see it on the table at breakfast, lunch, and dinner. People put food on it so they can eat with a fork or spoon. Some plates have pictures of animals or flowers on them. After eating, you wash it with soap and water.
Plate armour\n\nPlate armour is a strong suit made of metal. It covers a person from head to toe. Long ago, knights wore it to stay safe in fights. It has many hard pieces that fit together like a puzzle. You can see it in old castles or in storybooks about brave knights.
Plate tectonics\n\nPlate tectonics is a big idea about how the Earth's hard outside moves. It says the ground we walk on is broken into giant pieces called plates. These plates are like huge puzzle pieces that fit together. They float on a hot, soft layer deep under the ground. Sometimes the plates bump into each other, and that can make mountains. When they slide past each other, the ground can shake — that is an earthquake. You can see tall mountains like the ones in pictures, and they were made when plates pushed together a long time ago.
Plateau\n\nA plateau is a big piece of land that is flat on top. It looks like a giant table made of rock and dirt. You can find it high up in the mountains or sometimes under the sea. It is so high that you can see far away from the top. Some plateaus are made when hot rock from a volcano cools down. Others are made when the ground pushes up very slowly. The top is often windy and has few trees.
Plato\n\nPlato was a man who lived a long, long time ago. He thought a lot about big ideas like what is good and what is true. He wrote many stories where people talk and ask questions to learn new things. He started a school where people came to think and learn together. Many people still read his words today.
Platypus\n\nA platypus is a small, furry animal that lives in rivers. It has a wide, flat tail and a big, soft nose that looks like a duck's bill. It lives in eastern Australia, in streams and river banks. It swims very well and hunts for worms and water bugs at night. It is a special mammal because it lays eggs, but the mother still makes milk for the babies. You might see one in a zoo or in a quiet river at sunset.
Play\n\nPlay is something you do for fun. It can be running, jumping, drawing, or pretending. You can play alone or with friends. It makes you happy and helps you learn new things. You play at home, at the park, or at school during break time.
Play (activity)\n\nPlay is a fun thing you choose to do. It can be running, jumping, pretending, or playing a game with friends. You can play outside on a playground or inside with toys. When you play, you feel happy and you learn new things. A game of tag is one kind of play.
Playdate\n\nA playdate is a time when two or more children get together to play. It usually happens at one child's house or at a park. A grown-up watches to keep everyone safe. During a playdate, kids share toys, run around, and have fun. Sometimes they eat a snack like crackers or fruit. It is a nice way to make friends and learn to take turns.
Player\n\nA player is a person who plays a game or a sport. It can be a boy or a girl. You see players on a field, on a court, or in a park. They run, jump, kick, or throw a ball. A player tries to win and have fun. When you play tag with friends, you are a player too.
Playground\n\nA playground is a fun place where children go to play. It has things like a slide, a swing, and a seesaw. You can find it outside in a park or at a school. It helps kids run, jump, and climb to stay strong and healthy. The ground is soft, like rubber or sand, so it does not hurt if you fall. Many children love to go there with friends.
Playhouse\n\nA playhouse is a small house made for children to play in. It can be made of wood or plastic and has a little door and windows. You can find it in a backyard or a park. Children use it to pretend they are cooking, sleeping, or having a tea party. It is like a tiny real house where kids can be the boss.
Playroom\n\nA playroom is a room in a house where children can play. It has toys, books, and games on the floor or on low shelves. You find it in some homes, often near the kitchen or living room. It is a safe place to run, jump, and make noise. A playroom may have a soft rug, a small table, and chairs just your size. It is where you can build with blocks, dress up, or read a story.
Playtime\n\nPlaytime is a happy time when you can do fun things. It happens at home, at school, or outside. You can run, jump, draw, or play with toys. It helps your body grow strong and your mind learn new ideas. Friends often play together and laugh a lot. After playtime, you might feel tired but very happy.
Plaza\n\nA plaza is a big open space in a town or city. It has a flat floor made of stone or brick. You can find it in the middle of a town, near shops and tall buildings. People walk, sit, and meet friends there. Sometimes a plaza has a fountain with water that splashes. On sunny days, children run and play in the open space.
Please\n\nPlease is a small word we say to be kind. It is a way to ask for something in a nice voice. You say it when you want a snack, a toy, or a turn. When you say please, people feel happy to help you. You can hear it at home, at school, or at a friend's house. It is a good word to use every day.
Pleasure\n\nPleasure is a happy feeling you get inside. It is the opposite of feeling hurt or sad. You feel it when you do something fun, like eating a sweet treat or playing with a friend. It can make you smile or laugh. Your brain has special spots that light up when you feel it. Feeling it often helps you stay happy and healthy.
Pleiades\n\nPleiades is a group of stars in the night sky. It looks like a tiny bunch of bright dots close together. You can see it with just your eyes when the sky is dark and clear. It is part of a bigger picture in the sky called Taurus, the bull. Long ago, people gave it a name from old stories. The brightest star in the group is a big, hot star called Alcyone. It is one of the closest star groups to Earth.
Plesiosaur\n\nA plesiosaur is an old, big animal that lived in the sea. It had a wide body, a short tail, and four long flippers like paddles. Some had long necks and small heads, and some had short necks and big heads. It ate fish and other sea animals. It lived a long, long time ago, but now there are none left. We know about it because people find its bones in rocks.
Plot\n\nA plot is the story of a book, a movie, or a play. It tells what happens from the start to the end. First, something begins the story. Then, things get exciting or hard. At the end, the problem is fixed. When you watch a cartoon, the plot is all the things the characters do.
Plow\n\nA plow is a big tool that helps farmers and people move dirt or snow. It has a strong metal blade at the front. You can see it on a farm, pulled by a tractor. It digs into the ground and flips the soil over. This makes the dirt soft and ready for seeds. In winter, a plow pushes snow off the road so cars can drive safely.
Plug\n\nA plug is a small thing at the end of a cord. It has two or three metal sticks that go into holes in the wall. You find it on lamps, TVs, and toys that need power. It lets electricity flow from the wall to make things turn on. When you push it in, the light or toy starts to work.
Plum\n\nA plum is a small, round fruit that grows on a tree. It has smooth skin that can be purple, red, yellow, or green. Inside, it has soft, juicy flesh and one big hard seed. You can eat it fresh as a snack, or use it to make sweet jam. When a plum is dried, it becomes a prune. You might find plums at the grocery store or in a lunch box.
Plumber\n\nA plumber is a person who fixes pipes. He works on the pipes that bring water into your house and take dirty water away. When a sink is clogged or a toilet won't stop running, a plumber comes to help. He uses tools like a wrench and a long snake to clear the pipes. You might see a plumber under the kitchen sink or in the bathroom. He makes sure the water flows where it should.
Plumbing\n\nPlumbing is all the pipes that bring water into a house and take dirty water away. It has long straight parts and small bent parts that fit together under the floor and inside walls. You find it in your kitchen and bathroom. It gives you clean water to drink and wash your hands. When you flush the toilet, it carries the waste down and out of the house. A plumber is a person who fixes it when a pipe breaks or gets clogged.
Plus\n\nPlus is a way to put numbers together. It uses a little cross sign that looks like a plus. When you have two apples and you get one more, you use plus to know you have three. You see it in school when you learn to count. It helps you add things up.
Pluto\n\nPluto is a small, cold world far away in space. It is round like a ball and made of rock and ice. It is smaller than our Moon. Pluto lives very far from the Sun, so it is super cold there. It moves around the Sun, but its path is not a perfect circle. Sometimes it even comes closer to the Sun than another big world called Neptune. Pluto has five little moons that go around it. The biggest moon is named Charon. A long time ago, people called Pluto a planet, but now they call it a dwarf planet because it is so small and shares its path with other things.
Pneumonia\n\nPneumonia is a sickness in the lungs. It makes the tiny air bags inside the lungs fill up with gooey stuff. This makes it hard to breathe. A person with it may cough, feel pain in the chest, or feel very tired. Doctors give special medicine to help the body fight the sickness. Sometimes a person needs extra air from a mask to feel better. Many people get well with rest and care.
Pocket\n\nA pocket is a small bag sewn onto clothes. It is a little open space where you can put tiny things. You find it on pants, shirts, jackets, and coats. It keeps your hands warm or holds a tissue, a coin, or a small toy. When you wear pants, you can slide your hand into it to feel cozy.
Podcasting\n\nPodcasting is a way to share talking and sounds. It is like a radio show that lives on a computer or a phone. You can find a podcast about almost anything — funny stories, news, or learning new things. People make a podcast at home with a microphone. Then they put it online so others can listen. You can listen to it in the car, at home, or while playing. It is like having a story or a lesson in your pocket.
Poem\n\nA poem is a short piece of writing that uses words in a special way. It often has lines that sound like music, with beats and rhymes. You can find poems in books, on cards, or hear them in songs. People write poems to share feelings or tell a tiny story. A poem can be about a cat, a flower, or a happy day. Some poems are funny and make you laugh.
Poet\n\nA poet is a person who writes poems. He uses words that sound pretty together, like a song without music. You can find his poems in books at the library or at school. He writes about feelings, nature, or funny things he sees. Sometimes a poet reads his poem out loud, and the words dance in the air.
Poetry\n\nPoetry is a way to play with words. It uses words like music, with sounds that match and a beat you can feel. You can find it in books, songs, and little rhymes. People read it out loud or sing it to share a feeling or a story. A short poem you might know is a nursery rhyme like "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star."
Poinsettia\n\nA poinsettia is a plant with bright red leaves. It has green leaves too, and the red parts look like big flowers. You see it a lot in winter, around Christmas time. People put it in their homes to make the room look happy and colorful. It grows in warm places far away, but you can buy it in a store in a small pot.
Point\n\nA point is a tiny dot. It is so small that it has no size at all. You can make a point with a pencil tip on paper. It shows a place, like where two lines meet. In a game, you get a point when you do something good.
Point (geometry)\n\nA point is a tiny spot that shows a place. It has no size at all — no length, no width, and no height. We draw it as a small dot or a little cross on paper. You can see points on a map to show where a house or a park is. When you put two points together, they make a straight line. A point is one of the first things you learn in shapes.
Pointer\n\nA pointer is a long, thin stick. It is used to show or point at things. You might see a teacher use it to point at a board in a classroom. Some pointers have a small hand shape at the end. It helps people see what you are talking about.
Pointy\n\nPointy means something has a sharp end. It can be like the tip of a pencil or the top of a party hat. You can feel it with your finger, but you must be careful not to poke yourself. Many things in your house are pointy, like a fork or a needle. A mountain top far away can also look pointy.
Poison\n\nPoison is something that can make a living thing very sick or even die. It can be in food, drink, or air, or it can touch the skin. Some plants and mushrooms have poison inside them, so you should never eat them. A snake has poison in its bite, and a bee has poison in its sting. If someone eats or touches poison, they need a doctor right away. A special medicine called an antidote can sometimes stop the poison from hurting more.
Poland\n\nPoland is a country in Europe. It is next to Germany and other places. The land has big cities, green fields, and a sea at the top. Many people live there, and they speak Polish. A long time ago, kings and queens ruled it. Today, people choose their own leaders. You can see the Polish flag with white and red stripes.
Polar\n\nPolar means the very top or very bottom of the Earth. It is the coldest place on our planet. At the North Pole and South Pole, there is ice and snow all year. Polar bears live at the North Pole, and penguins live at the South Pole. The sun stays up all day in summer and hides all day in winter.
Polar bear\n\nA polar bear is a big white bear that lives in the cold, icy north. It has thick white fur that keeps it warm, and black skin underneath. It is very strong and can swim fast in the water. It eats mostly seals and fish, waiting by holes in the ice to catch them. Baby polar bears stay with their mom for about two years, learning to hunt and swim. You can see a polar bear in a zoo or in pictures of snow and ice.
Polaris (star)\n\nPolaris is a bright star in the night sky. It looks like a tiny dot of light that does not move. You can find it almost straight above the North Pole. Long ago, people on boats used it to know which way to go. It is part of a group of stars that make a shape like a little bear.
Pole\n\nA pole is a long, straight stick that stands up tall. It can be made of wood, metal, or hard plastic. You can see a pole holding up a tent, a flag, or a street light. People use it to hold things up high or to push a boat in water. A pole is often round and smooth, and you can hold it with your hands.
Pole vault\n\nPole vault is a sport where a person jumps high over a bar. It uses a long, bendy stick to push off the ground. You can see it at big games like the Olympics. The jumper runs fast, plants the stick, and swings up into the air. If they clear the bar without knocking it down, they win.
Police\n\nPolice are people who help keep us safe. They wear a blue or black uniform with a shiny badge. You can see them in a police car or at a police station. They help when there is a car crash or a fire. They also catch people who break the rules. If you are lost, a police officer can help you find your mom or dad.
Polish language\n\nPolish is a way people talk and write. It is the main language in a country called Poland. Many people in other places also speak it. It has letters that look like English letters with little marks. Some letters make sounds that are not in English. People use it to say hello, ask names, and tell stories.
Polite\n\nPolite means using kind words and nice actions. It is saying "please" when you ask for something and "thank you" when you get it. You can be polite at home, at school, or at a friend's house. It helps people feel good and happy with each other. When you wait your turn on the slide, that is polite too.
Politely\n\nPolitely means doing things in a kind and nice way. It is how you act when you say please and thank you. You find it when people talk softly and wait their turn. It is used to make others feel good and happy. For example, you say excuse me if you bump into someone.
Political\n\nPolitics is how a big group of people make rules and decide things together. It is like when your family picks what game to play, but for a whole town or country. People talk and vote to choose leaders. The leaders help keep things fair and safe. You might see politics on TV when grown-ups talk about new rules for schools or parks.
Political freedom\n\nPolitical freedom means people can say what they think. It means they can pick their own leaders. It also means they can meet with friends and talk about ideas. In some places, people have a lot of political freedom. In other places, they have only a little. It is like being able to choose your own game at playtime.
Political party\n\nA political party is a group of people who work together to run the country. They pick a person to be the leader and ask people to vote for them. When they get the most votes, they make the rules and decide how things work. In some places, there are two big parties, like in the United States. In other places, many parties share the power. They often have a name and a sign, like a donkey or an elephant, so people know who they are.
Political Science\n\nPolitical science is about how people make rules and share power. It looks at how leaders are picked and how towns, cities, and countries are run. You see it when people vote or when a mayor talks on TV. It helps us understand why we have laws, like stopping at a red light. Even in a classroom, when kids pick a line leader, that is a tiny bit like political science.
Politics\n\nPolitics is how people in a group make decisions together. It happens when people talk and agree on rules so everyone can live safely. You can see it in a country, a school, or even a family. In a country, some people called leaders make big rules, like stopping cars from going too fast. These rules help keep people from getting hurt. At home, your family might use politics when they decide what game to play or what to eat for dinner. It is about sharing ideas and picking the best one for the group.
Pollen\n\nPollen is a fine yellow powder made by flowers. It looks like tiny dust grains. You can see it on the inside of a flower, on the fuzzy middle part. Wind or small animals like bees carry it from one flower to another. This helps the flower make seeds so new plants can grow. Sometimes you see yellow dust on a bee's legs when it visits a flower.
Pollination\n\nPollination is how plants make seeds. It happens when tiny yellow dust called pollen moves from one flower to another. Wind can carry it, or bees and butterflies can carry it on their bodies. When the pollen reaches the right spot, a seed starts to grow. Many fruits we eat, like apples and tomatoes, need pollination first.
Pollution\n\nPollution is when bad stuff gets into the air, water, or land and makes it dirty. It can hurt plants, animals, and people. You might see trash on the ground or dark smoke from a big truck. Sometimes the water in a pond looks green and yucky because of pollution. People can help by picking up trash and using less stuff that makes smoke.
Polo\n\nPolo is a game that people play while riding on horses. It has two teams, and each team has four riders. The riders use long sticks called mallets to hit a small ball. They try to hit the ball through two tall posts at the end of a big grass field. The horses are fast and strong, and they help the riders move quickly. You might see polo in a park or on TV, with riders wearing helmets and bright shirts.
Polygon\n\nA polygon is a flat shape with straight sides. It has corners where the sides meet. You can see polygons in many places. A square is a polygon with four sides that are all the same. A triangle is a polygon with three sides. Some polygons have many sides, like a stop sign with eight sides. People use polygons to draw pictures on computers.
Polynesia\n\nPolynesia is a big group of islands in the ocean. It is shaped like a triangle on the map. The top point is Hawai'i, the bottom left is New Zealand, and the bottom right is Easter Island. All the islands inside that shape are part of it. Many people live on these islands and use boats to travel between them. The water around it is warm and blue.
Polytheism\n\nPolytheism is when people believe in many gods. It is a way of thinking about the world. Long ago, people in places like Greece and Rome told stories about many gods. These stories are called myths. Today, some people still follow religions with many gods. It is different from believing in just one god.
Pomegranate\n\nA pomegranate is a round fruit with a tough, leathery skin. It is about the size of a big orange. Inside, it has many small, juicy seeds that are bright red. You can eat the seeds, and they taste sweet and a little sour. People grow pomegranate trees in warm places like the Middle East and California. You might see the fruit in a store or at a market. Some people use it to make juice or add it to salads.
Pompeii\n\nPompeii is a very old city that got covered by a big mountain that spit fire. It looks like a town made of stone, with streets, houses, and walls you can still walk on. You find it in a country called Italy, near a mountain that can get hot and loud. A long, long time ago, the mountain threw out hot ash and rocks, and it covered the whole city. That kept the city safe under the ground for many years. Now, people dig it up and look at the old houses and pots. They learn how people lived back then. You can go see it today, like a big stone puzzle from the past.
Pond\n\nA pond is a small body of water. It is like a tiny lake where the water stays in one place. You can find it in a park, a forest, or near a farm. Many animals live in it, like ducks, turtles, and frogs. Small fish swim in it too. The sun can shine all the way to the bottom. Some ponds dry up when the weather gets hot and come back when it rains. People should keep it clean so the animals stay safe.
Pony\n\nA pony is a small kind of horse. It has a round, chubby body and short legs. You can find it on a farm with other horses. People ride it and take care of it. A baby pony is called a foal. A Shetland pony is one kind you might see.
Pool\n\nA pool is a big bowl of water made for people to play in. It has clean, blue water that feels cool on a hot day. You can find it outside in a yard or at a park. People swim, splash, and float in it. Some pools have a shallow end where little kids can stand. You might see one at a friend's house or a hotel.
Pool (cue sports)\n\nPool is a game played on a big flat table. It has six holes around the edges called pockets. You use a long stick to push a white ball. The white ball hits other colored balls. The goal is to make the colored balls fall into the pockets. Many people play it at a game room or a friend's house.
Poop\n\nPoop is the brown stuff that comes out of your body when you go to the bathroom. It is made of food your body did not need. After you eat, your tummy takes the good parts and leaves the rest. That rest comes out as poop. It can be soft or hard, and it smells. Everyone poops—moms, dads, kids, and even animals. Flushing the toilet sends it away.
Poor\n\nPoor means you do not have much money. It is when a person cannot buy many things they need, like food, clothes, or a warm place to sleep. Some people who are poor live in small houses or on the street. They may not have toys or books. It is hard for them to get new shoes or a coat. Many kind people try to help by giving food or old clothes. Being poor is not a choice, and it can make a person feel sad.
Pop\n\nPop is a kind of music that is fun and easy to dance to. It has a strong beat that makes you want to clap your hands or tap your feet. You can hear it on the radio, on TV, or when people sing and play instruments. Many kids like pop songs because the tunes are catchy and you can sing along. A pop song often talks about happy things, like friends or sunny days.
Pop art\n\nPop art is a kind of art that uses pictures from everyday things. It often shows things like soup cans, comic strips, or movie stars. The colors are bright and clear, and the edges are often black like in a coloring book. You can see pop art in museums or on posters. It makes people look at simple things in a new way.
Pop music\n\nPop music is a kind of music that many people like to listen to. It has a strong beat that makes you want to dance. You can hear it on the radio, on TV, or at a party. Singers use a microphone to make their voice loud. Some pop music is fast and happy, and some is slow and soft. A famous pop singer is Taylor Swift. She sings songs that many kids and grown-ups enjoy.
Popcorn\n\nPopcorn is a yummy snack made from corn. It looks like small white fluffy clouds. You make it by heating tiny hard corn seeds until they pop open. People eat it at the movies, at home, or at a fair. It can be salty or sweet with butter on top.
Pope\n\nThe Pope is the leader of the Catholic Church. He lives in a small country called Vatican City, inside the big city of Rome. He wears a long white robe and a tall white hat. He talks to people about being kind and good. Many people come from far away to see him and listen to his words. He is chosen by a group of men in red robes called cardinals. Once he is chosen, he keeps the job for his whole life.
Popular\n\nPopular means many people like something. It can be a song, a toy, a game, or a person. When a thing is popular, lots of kids want to play with it or talk about it. A popular color might be blue because many friends say it is their favorite. If a new snack is popular, you see it in many lunch boxes at school.
Popular culture\n\nPopular culture is the fun stuff many people like at the same time. It comes from TV, radio, games, books, and music. You can see it in a catchy song on the radio or a cartoon show on TV. It can be a dance everyone does or a toy everyone wants. Sometimes grown-ups worry about it and say no, but in many places people are free to enjoy it.
Population\n\nPopulation is how many people live in one place. It counts all the people in a town, a city, or the whole world. A big city has a high population because many people live close together. A small town has a low population because people live far apart. The world has more than 8 billion people now. India has the most people of any country.
Porcelain\n\nPorcelain is a hard, white material that people make from special clay. It is smooth and shiny, and it can be very thin. You can find it in cups, plates, and pretty dolls at home. People use it to eat and drink, and they also put it on shelves to look nice. A tea set with flowers painted on it is often made of porcelain.
Porcupine\n\nA porcupine is a small animal with a body covered in sharp, pointy sticks. It has a round body, short legs, and a small face. It lives in forests, deserts, and grassy places. The sharp sticks on its back help keep it safe from other animals. When another animal gets too close, the sticks can poke them and hurt. A baby porcupine is called a porcupette. Its sticks are soft when it is born so it does not hurt its mom.
Pork\n\nPork is meat that comes from a pig. It is pink or white when it is cooked. People eat it in many places around the world. Some people make it into bacon, ham, or sausages. You might see it on a plate at breakfast or in a sandwich. Some families do not eat pork because of their rules about food.
Porpoise\n\nA porpoise is a small animal that lives in the ocean. It looks a lot like a dolphin, but it is shorter and rounder. It has a round head, a short nose, and a fin on its back that is shaped like a triangle. It swims in the sea and comes up to the top to breathe air. Some people teach porpoises to do tricks in big water parks. You might see one in a picture book about the ocean.
Porridge\n\nPorridge is a warm, soft food made from oats. It is cooked with water or milk in a pot until it gets thick and creamy. People eat it from a bowl, often in the morning for breakfast. Some add a little sugar, jam, or fruit on top to make it sweet. It is easy to eat and good for you when you feel sick.
Port\n\nA port is a place by the water where big boats stop. It is next to the ocean, a river, or a lake. Boats come to a port to pick up things like food, toys, and clothes. They also drop off things people need. People can get on a boat or get off a boat at a port. Some ports are just for fishing boats. Other ports are for big boats that take people on fun trips. A port has long wooden paths called docks where boats can rest. You might see a port when you go to the beach or visit a big city by the water.
Port-au-Prince\n\nPort-au-Prince is a big city. It is the most important city in a country called Haiti. Many people live there, more than two million. It has a big place where boats bring in food and take out coffee and sugar. It also has schools, stores, and an airport for planes. A long time ago, a big shaking of the ground broke many buildings and hurt many people. Some parts are still broken today.
Porter\n\nA porter is a person who carries bags and suitcases for other people. He works at a train station, an airport, or a hotel. He wears a uniform so you can see him easily. When you have a big, heavy bag, he picks it up and takes it where you need to go. He helps people who are tired or have too many things to carry.
Porto\n\nPorto is a big city in Portugal, a country near the sea. It sits next to a wide river, and the big blue ocean is not far away. Many old stone buildings and a tall bridge make it look pretty. People visit Porto to see the river and taste a sweet drink called port wine. The city is so old and special that it is on a list of important places in the world.
Portrait\n\nA portrait is a picture of a person's face. It can be a painting or a photo. It shows what the person looks like and how they feel. You can see portraits in a museum or on a wall at home. When someone makes a portrait, the person sits very still and looks at the artist. A family photo where everyone smiles is a kind of portrait.
Portugal\n\nPortugal is a country in Europe. It is next to the big blue ocean and next to Spain. Its main city is Lisbon. People speak Portuguese there. It has warm sunny beaches where families go on holiday. Long ago, its ships sailed far across the sea to find new lands. Today, it is a peaceful place with pretty tiles on houses and tasty custard tarts to eat.
Portuguese\n\nPortuguese is a way people talk and write. It sounds like music and has many soft sounds. People speak it in a country called Portugal and in a big country called Brazil. You can hear it in songs, on TV, and when people say hello. Some kids learn it at home from their mom or dad.
Portuguese language\n\nPortuguese is a way people talk and write. It sounds soft and has many words that roll off the tongue. People speak it in Portugal, a country in Europe, and in Brazil, a big country in South America. It is also spoken in some parts of Africa and Asia. Many children learn Portuguese at home from their mom and dad. It is one of the most spoken languages in the world.
Poseidon\n\nPoseidon is a god from old Greek stories. He is the god of the big blue sea and the waves. He carries a long fork with three sharp points called a trident. When he gets angry, he hits the ground with it and makes the earth shake. Sailors ask him to keep the water calm so they can sail safely. He also made the first horse, so people call him the father of horses. You can see pictures of him with a fish tail or riding a dolphin.
Positive\n\nPositive means something good or happy. It is the opposite of negative. When you feel positive, you smile and feel light inside. A sunny day can make you feel positive. A kind word from a friend is also positive. It is a nice feeling that makes you want to play and share.
Possible\n\nPossible means something can happen or can be done. It is not a sure thing, but it is not a no. When you say "It is possible," you mean maybe yes, maybe no. For example, it is possible that it will rain today. That means rain might come, but it might not. Another example: it is possible to jump over a small puddle. That means you can do it if you try. Some things are not possible, like flying without a plane. That means they cannot happen.
Post\n\nA post is a tall, straight stick that stands up from the ground. It can be made of wood, metal, or stone. You see posts in many places, like holding up a fence or a sign. A post helps keep things steady and in place. Sometimes people tie a rope to it or hang a light on it. A mailbox often sits on a short post by the road.
Postage stamp\n\nA postage stamp is a small piece of paper you stick on a letter. It shows that you paid to send the letter. You put it on the top right corner of the envelope. It has a sticky back, so you can lick it or peel it to make it stick. Each country has its own stamps with different pictures. Some show people, maps, or animals. Many people like to save stamps in a special book. A very old stamp from Britain was the first one ever made.
Postcard\n\nA postcard is a small, flat piece of thick paper. It has a picture on one side and a blank space on the other. You can write a short note on it and stick a stamp in the corner. People send postcards in the mail when they go on a trip. It shows a pretty place like a beach or a big city. A friend or family member gets the postcard and sees where you went. It is like sending a little hello from far away.
Poster\n\nA poster is a big piece of paper with a picture or words on it. It is often bright and colorful so people will look at it. You can find it on a wall, in a classroom, or on a board outside. It tells you about something, like a movie, a show, or a rule. Sometimes it has a drawing of a favorite hero or animal. People put it up to share news or make a room look nice.
Postman\n\nA postman is a person who brings letters and boxes to your house. He wears a blue or red uniform and carries a big bag. You can see him walking on the street or driving a small truck. He puts mail in your mailbox so you can read it. Sometimes he brings a birthday card or a toy you ordered.
Pot\n\nA pot is a round, deep bowl that you use for cooking. It is often made of metal and has two handles on the sides. You find it in the kitchen, on top of the stove. People put food and water inside it and heat it up to make soup, pasta, or boiled eggs. A pot is bigger than a pan and has tall sides. When you see bubbles rising in hot water, that is a pot boiling.
Potato\n\nA potato is a vegetable that grows under the ground. It is round or long and has a brown or yellow skin. Inside, it is white or yellow and feels hard when raw. You find potatoes in the dirt on a farm or in a garden. People dig them up and cook them by boiling, baking, or frying. You can eat them as soft baked potatoes, crispy fries, or thin chips. Many kids like mashed potatoes with butter.
Potential energy\n\nPotential energy is energy that is saved up and waiting to be used. It is like a toy car at the top of a ramp. The car is not moving yet, but it has energy ready to go. When you let go, it rolls down fast. A stretched rubber band also has it. When you let go, the rubber band snaps back. A ball held up high has it too. When you drop the ball, it falls down. The energy changes into moving energy, but no energy is lost.
Potter's wheel\n\nA potter's wheel is a round, flat tool that spins around. It helps people make bowls, cups, and pots from soft, wet clay. The person sits in front of it and pushes the clay with their hands while it turns. You can find a potter's wheel in an art room or a workshop. When the clay is dry, the bowl or cup goes into a hot oven to become hard. A child might see one at a fair where a grown-up makes a pot.
Pottery\n\nPottery is a hard bowl, cup, or plate made from soft, wet mud called clay. It starts as a lump of clay that a potter shapes with their hands or a spinning wheel. Then it goes into a very hot oven to bake until it is hard and strong. After baking, it can be painted with shiny colors to make it pretty and smooth. You can find pottery in your kitchen, like a cereal bowl or a mug for milk. Long ago, people made all their pots and jars this way because there were no plastic cups.
Poultry\n\nPoultry are birds that people keep on farms. They give us eggs and meat to eat. Chickens are the most common kind. They have feathers, two legs, and a beak. You can find them in a coop or a big farm field. People cook chicken for dinner and use eggs to make cakes. Other poultry are ducks and turkeys. A duck likes to swim in water. A turkey is bigger and has a funny red neck. Many children eat chicken nuggets or a boiled egg for lunch.
Pound\n\nA pound is a way to measure how heavy something is. It is used in some places, like the United States. A small bag of apples can weigh one pound. A big dog can weigh many pounds. People use a scale to see how many pounds something weighs.
Pound (mass)\n\nA pound is a way to tell how heavy something is. It is used in places like the United States. One pound is the same as 16 smaller bits called ounces. You see it on a kitchen scale when you weigh fruit or flour. A loaf of bread often weighs about one pound.
Pound sterling\n\nPound sterling is the money people use in the United Kingdom. It is made of coins and paper notes. The coins are small and round, and the notes are flat and colorful. People use it to buy food, toys, and clothes. One pound can be split into 100 tiny bits called pence. You might see a pound coin with a picture of the queen on it.
Pour\n\nPour means to tip a cup or a bottle so that the water or juice inside falls out. You do it when you fill a glass with milk at breakfast. It makes a soft splashing sound as the drink goes down. You can also pour sand from a bucket to make a sandcastle. When you pour, you hold the thing with two hands and tilt it slowly.
Poverty\n\nPoverty means a person does not have enough money for the things they need. It means they may not have enough food, clean water, or a safe place to sleep. Many people in the world live this way. Some have a job but still do not earn enough money. When people learn to read and write, it can help them find better work. Governments can also help by giving money or food to people who need it.
Powder\n\nPowder is a soft, dry thing made of many tiny bits. It feels light and can be white or other colors. You can find it in the kitchen, like flour for baking a cake. People also use it on their skin, like baby powder, to feel smooth and dry. If you blow on it, the tiny bits fly up like a little cloud.
Power\n\nPower is the ability to make things happen. It can be a push or a pull that moves something, like when you push a toy car. It can also be the energy that makes lights turn on and machines work. You see power when a fan spins fast or when a ball rolls far after you kick it. In stories, a superhero has power to fly or lift heavy things.
Power (physics)\n\nPower is how fast work gets done. It is like how quickly you can push a toy car across the floor. A bright light bulb uses more power than a dim one, so it shines stronger. A car uses a lot of power to go fast up a hill. When you lift a heavy box slowly, you use the same work as lifting it fast, but lifting it fast needs more power.
Power station\n\nA power station is a big place that makes electricity. It has tall towers and long wires that carry power far away. You can find one near a town or by a river. It sends electricity to homes so lights turn on and the TV works. Some use fire, some use wind, and some use the sun to make power.
Powerlifting\n\nPowerlifting is a sport where people try to lift very heavy things. It has three main moves: the squat, the bench press, and the deadlift. In a squat, a person bends their knees with a heavy bar on their back. In a bench press, they lie down and push a bar up from their chest. In a deadlift, they bend and pick up a bar from the floor. People who do powerlifting are very strong. They practice a lot to lift more and more weight.
Practice\n\nPractice means doing something many times to get better at it. It is like when you try to ride a bike again and again. At first, it feels hard, but after practice, it becomes easy. You can practice drawing, singing, or writing your name. Every time you practice, you learn a little more. It helps your brain and body remember how to do things.
Prague\n\nPrague is a big city where many people live. It has old stone bridges, tall towers, and a castle on a hill. You can find it in the middle of Europe, next to a river. People walk on the old bridge, look at a big clock on a wall, and buy small toys. A long time ago, kings and queens lived in the castle, and now many visitors come to see it.
Prairie\n\nA prairie is a big, open land with lots of grass. It has some flowers and a few bushes, but not many trees. You can find it in North America. It is home to animals like the big, furry buffalo and fast antelope. Birds like the meadowlark sing there. Some prairies have tall grass that grows higher than a grown-up. Other prairies have short grass that is only as high as your knee. Farmers use the rich dirt to grow food like corn and wheat. Long ago, fires would sweep across the land and keep trees away. Today, people work to protect the prairie so it stays healthy.
Prank\n\nA prank is a funny trick you play on someone. It is meant to make people laugh, not to hurt or be mean. You might hide behind a door and jump out to say "boo!" That is a prank. Another prank is putting a fake bug on a chair to see a friend jump. After the trick, everyone should laugh together. A prank works best when it is silly and safe.
Pray\n\nPray is when you talk to God or a higher power. You can do it with your eyes closed and your hands together. People pray in a quiet place like a church, a temple, or at home. They say thank you, ask for help, or think about others. A child might pray before bed to feel safe and loved.
Prayer\n\nPrayer is talking to God. It can be out loud, quiet in your heart, or sung in a song. People pray to say thank you, to say sorry, or to ask for help. You can pray by yourself or with your family. Many people close their eyes and put their hands together when they pray. Some people kneel down. In some places, people pray many times a day, like in the morning and at night. A child might pray before bed to say goodnight to God.
Pre\n\nPre is a short word we put in front of another word. It means before. When you hear pre in a word, it tells you something happens first. For example, a preview is when you see a little bit of a movie before the whole thing starts. A preschool is a place you go to learn before big school. It is a helper word that changes what other words mean.
Pre Columbian Era\n\nThe Pre Columbian Era is a long time ago, before a man named Columbus came to America. It is the time when only Native people lived on the land. They built homes, grew food, and made beautiful art. They had their own stories and ways of living. You can see things they made in museums today.
Precipitation\n\nPrecipitation is water that falls from the sky. It can be rain, snow, or small balls of ice. Rain is water drops. Snow is soft, white, and cold. Ice balls are hard and can bounce. It falls when clouds get too full of water. You can see it on a rainy day or a snowy day.
Predation\n\nPredation is when one animal catches and eats another animal. The animal that eats is called a predator. It hunts the other animal, which is called prey. A predator can be big like a lion or small like a spider. It uses sharp teeth, claws, or a sticky web to catch food. Some predators hide and wait very still. When prey comes close, it jumps out fast. You might see a cat chase a mouse. That is predation.
Prefer\n\nTo prefer means to like one thing more than another. It is a choice you make in your head. When you have two snacks, you might pick the one you like best. That is what it means to prefer. At the park, you might prefer the swing over the slide. It is a feeling that helps you decide.
Pregnancy\n\nPregnancy is when a baby grows inside a mommy's tummy. It takes about nine months for the baby to get big enough to be born. The mommy's tummy gets round and bigger as the baby grows. A doctor helps check that the baby is healthy. At the end, the baby comes out, and the mommy can hold it in her arms.
Prehistory\n\nPrehistory is the time before people wrote things down. It was a very, very long time ago. People lived in caves or tents made from animal skin. They used simple tools made of stone, wood, and bone to hunt and cut. They made fire to cook food and stay warm. We know about them because scientists find old tools, bones, and drawings in caves.
Prejudice\n\nPrejudice is when you decide you do not like someone before you really know them. It is like putting a label on a person without looking at who they are inside. You might see it when someone is mean to another child because of their skin color or where they come from. It can hurt people’s feelings and make them sad. A good rule is to wait and learn about a person before you make up your mind.
Prepare\n\nPrepare means to get something ready. When you set the table before dinner, you prepare it. You can also prepare for school by packing your bag the night before. It helps things go smoothly and on time.
Prescription\n\nA prescription is a note from a doctor. It tells a sick person what to do to feel better. It often says to get special medicine from a store called a pharmacy. The medicine is very strong, so you can only get it with the note. The note can also say to do special moves to help your body, like stretches. Before, the note was on paper. Now it is often sent on a computer, which is faster and safer.
Present\n\nA present is a gift you give to someone. It is wrapped in pretty paper with a bow on top. You find it at a birthday party or under a Christmas tree. It makes the person who gets it feel happy and loved. You might give a present to your friend or your mom.
Preservation\n\nPreservation means keeping something safe so it stays the same for a long time. It is like putting a toy in a box so it does not break. People use it to keep food fresh, like putting fruit in the fridge. They also use it to protect old buildings and trees. When you put a drawing in a folder, that is preservation too.
President\n\nA president is the leader of a country. He or she works in a big white house or a special building. People choose a president by voting. The president helps make rules to keep people safe. He or she talks to other countries and shakes hands with their leaders. You can see a president on TV giving a speech.
Press\n\nA press is when you push down on something with your hand or finger. It is a quick, firm push. You can press a button to turn on a light or make a toy play music. When you press a stamp onto paper, it leaves a mark. You might press your hands together to clap. A press can also be a big machine that squishes things flat, like a fruit press that makes juice.
Pressure\n\nPressure is how hard something pushes on a spot. It is like when you press your hand on a table. A small push over a big spot feels soft. The same push on a tiny spot feels hard. You can feel it when you poke a balloon with one finger. The air around us also pushes on everything. That is why a balloon stays round. A tool called a barometer tells us how hard the air pushes.
Pretend\n\nPretend is when you use your imagination to make believe something is real. It is like playing a game in your head. You can pretend to be a dog, a superhero, or a mommy. You might use a box as a car or a stick as a magic wand. When you play with friends, you all pretend together and make up stories.
Pretoria\n\nPretoria is a big city in the country of South Africa. It is one of three special cities that help run the country. It sits in a warm valley with hills around it. Many people live there, and they speak different languages. Long ago, a man named the city after his father. Today, people work there making cars, trains, and strong metal things.
Pretty\n\nPretty means something looks very nice to your eyes. It can be a flower with bright colors, a shiny star, or a new dress. You might see pretty things in a garden, in a picture book, or at a party. When you see something pretty, it makes you smile and feel happy. A rainbow after the rain is pretty.
Prey\n\nPrey is an animal that another animal hunts and eats. It is often smaller and faster than the animal that chases it. You can find prey in forests, fields, and even in the water. A rabbit is prey for a fox. A small fish is prey for a big fish. The prey tries to run away or hide so it stays safe.
Price\n\nPrice is how much something costs. It tells you what you must give to get a thing. Long ago, people traded one thing for another, like eggs for wool. Now we mostly use money to pay a price. When you go to a store, the number on a toy is its price. You give that much money and the toy is yours.
Pride\n\nPride is a happy feeling you get when you do something good. It feels warm and big inside your chest. You might feel it when you learn to tie your shoes or draw a nice picture. It can also be a feeling you have for someone you love, like when your friend shares a toy. Pride makes you stand tall and smile.
Priest\n\nA priest is a person who helps people talk to God. He works in a church, a special building with a tall pointy roof. He wears a long robe, sometimes white or black. On Sundays, he stands at the front and tells stories from a big book. He also gives out bread and says prayers. Some priests can have a family, and some cannot. You might see a priest at a wedding or when a baby gets a blessing.
Primary color\n\nA primary color is a color that cannot be made by mixing other colors. It is one of three special colors. You can mix these three colors to make many other colors. When you use light, like on a TV or a tablet, the primary colors are red, green, and blue. When you mix paint or crayons, the primary colors are red, yellow, and blue. You can see primary colors in a rainbow or in a box of paints.
Primary school\n\nA primary school is a place where young children go to learn. It has many rooms with desks, chairs, and a big board. You can find it in almost every town and city. Teachers help children read, write, and do simple math there. A child you know might go to one every morning with a backpack.
Primate\n\nA primate is a kind of animal with fur and hands. It has five fingers on each hand, just like you. Most primates live in forests with lots of trees. They climb and swing from branch to branch. Monkeys and apes are primates. So are lemurs. People are primates too!
Prime\n\nA prime is a number bigger than one. It can only be divided by one and itself. You cannot split it into equal groups without leftovers. For example, the number five is a prime. If you have five blocks, you can only make one long line or five tiny piles of one. The number two is also a prime. It is the smallest prime and the only even one.
Prime Meridian\n\nThe Prime Meridian is an invisible line that goes from the top of the Earth to the bottom. It runs through a special building in London, England. People use it to help find places on a map. It is the starting line for measuring how far east or west a place is. You can stand with one foot on each side of the line when you visit the building.
Prime Number\n\nA prime number is a number that can only be divided by 1 and itself. It is like a special counting number. You cannot break it into smaller equal groups. For example, 5 is a prime number because you can only make one row of 5 or five rows of 1. Another example is 7. But 6 is not a prime number because you can make two rows of 3. Prime numbers are like building blocks for all other numbers.
Princess\n\nA princess is a girl from a royal family. She often wears a long, pretty dress and a shiny crown on her head. You can find her in fairy tales and storybooks, living in a big castle. She is kind and helps people in her land. Sometimes she rides a horse or dances at a ball. Many children dress up as a princess for fun.
Print\n\nPrint is when you put words or pictures onto paper. It can be made by a machine called a printer. You see print in books, on signs, and on the box of your favorite cereal. When you draw a picture and your teacher copies it for the class, that is print too. Print helps people share stories and ideas without talking.
Printing\n\nPrinting is a way to put words and pictures on paper. It uses ink and a big machine called a press. You see printing in books, newspapers, and posters. Long ago, people wrote everything by hand, but now printing makes many copies fast. It helps everyone read the same story or learn the same things.
Printing press\n\nA printing press is a big machine that makes many copies of words and pictures on paper. It has parts that push ink onto the paper, like a stamp. You can find it in a factory where people make books and newspapers. It works fast to print the same page over and over. A book you read at bedtime was made with a printing press.
Printmaking\n\nPrintmaking is a way to make art by pressing a picture onto paper. It starts with a flat piece like wood, metal, or stone. The artist cuts or draws a picture on it. Then they put paint on it and press paper on top. The same picture can be made many times. Each one is called a print. You can see prints in books, on walls, or on T-shirts.
Prism (optics)\n\nA prism is a special piece of clear glass or plastic. It has flat sides and can be shaped like a triangle. When light goes into it, the light bends and comes out as a rainbow stripe. You can see this rainbow on a wall or a piece of paper. Some prisms are used in binoculars to help you see far-away things. A prism can also be inside a camera so the person taking a picture can see what the picture will look like.
Privacy\n\nPrivacy is about keeping some things just for yourself. It means you can choose who knows your secrets, like your birthday wish or a funny story. At home, you might have a special box where you hide your favorite toys. That is your private space. On a computer or tablet, grown-ups help keep your name and picture safe so strangers cannot see them. Privacy is a rule that says people should ask before they look at your stuff or tell your stories to others.
Private\n\nPrivate means something that is just for one person or a few people. It is not for everyone to see or know. Your bedroom is a private place where you keep your toys and sleep. A secret you tell only to your best friend is private. When you close the door to the bathroom, that is private time. Some things are private because they are special or personal.
Prize\n\nA prize is a special thing you get when you win. It can be a toy, a shiny ribbon, or a paper with your name on it. You might get a prize at a party game or at school when you do something good. It feels nice to hold a prize and know you did a great job.
Probability\n\nProbability is a way to talk about how likely something is to happen. It helps us guess if a thing will happen or not. You can use it when you flip a coin. The coin has two sides: one side is called heads, and the other side is called tails. When you flip it, it can land on heads or tails. The chance of heads is the same as the chance of tails. You can also use it with a die. A die is a small cube with dots on each side, from one dot to six dots. When you roll it, it can land on any number. The chance of getting a one is the same as getting a two, or any other number. You can find probability in games you play, like board games with dice or picking a card from a deck.
Problem\n\nA problem is something that is hard or makes you feel stuck. It can be a puzzle you cannot solve, a toy that breaks, or a time when you feel sad or angry. You find problems at home, at school, or when you play with friends. When you have a problem, you can ask a grown-up for help. You can also try to fix it by thinking of a new way. For example, if your block tower falls down, that is a problem. You can build it again with bigger blocks at the bottom.
Process\n\nA process is a set of steps you follow to do something. It is like a recipe for making cookies. First you mix the dough, then you shape it, and then you bake it. Each step happens in order. You can find a process in many places, like when you get ready for school. First you wake up, then you brush your teeth, then you eat breakfast. It helps you finish a job from start to end.
Product\n\nA product is something that people make or grow. It can be a toy, a book, or a snack. You can find it in a store or at a market. People buy it to use or to eat. For example, a box of crayons is a product you can color with.
Professional wrestling\n\nProfessional wrestling is a show where big, strong people pretend to fight. They wear colorful clothes and have fun names. They wrestle inside a ring with ropes all around it. They jump, lift each other, and fall down, but it is all a play to make people cheer. The best wrestlers win shiny belts to show they are the top star. You can watch it on TV or go see it in a big room with lots of seats.
Profit\n\nProfit is the extra money you get when you sell something for more than you paid. It is like a reward for making or selling things. If you buy a toy for five coins and sell it for eight coins, you have three coins of profit. Stores use profit to buy more things to sell. It helps people grow their business and save money.
Program\n\nA program is a set of steps that tells a computer what to do. It is like a recipe for the computer. You can find programs on phones, tablets, and computers. People use programs to play games, draw pictures, or watch videos. For example, a game on a tablet is a program.
Project\n\nA project is a job you plan and do. It has a start and an end. You might make a drawing, build a block tower, or grow a plant. You pick what to do, get your things ready, and then you work on it. When you finish, you can show it to your family. A project can be big or small, and it feels good to see it done.
Promise\n\nA promise is when you say you will do something and you mean it. It is like a strong yes that you keep. When you promise to share a toy, you let your friend play with it. When you promise to be quiet, you do not make loud sounds. A promise helps people trust each other. It feels good when someone keeps a promise to you.
Pronghorn\n\nA pronghorn is an animal that looks like a deer. It has brown fur on top and white fur on its belly. It lives in North America on wide, flat grassy lands. It can run very, very fast—faster than almost any other animal. It eats grass and leaves. Male pronghorns have two short, pointy horns. Female pronghorns usually have no horns. A baby pronghorn can run with its mom when it is just one week old.
Pronoun\n\nA pronoun is a small word that takes the place of a name. It helps us talk without saying the same name over and over. You use it when you say "I," "you," "he," "she," "it," "we," or "they." For example, instead of "Mom said Mom is happy," you say "Mom said she is happy." It can show who something belongs to, like "my toy" or "her book." It can also point back to the person doing the action, like "I did it myself."
Proof\n\nA proof is a way to show that something is true. It is like a strong reason that leaves no doubt. When you say you did not eat the cookie, but there are crumbs on your shirt, that is a proof. In school, a teacher might ask you to show your work on a math problem. That is a proof that your answer is right. A proof can be a picture, a story, or a thing you can see. It helps people trust what you say.
Property\n\nProperty is something that belongs to a person. It can be a thing you can hold, like a toy or a book. It can also be a place, like a house or a flat. When you buy something, it becomes your property. People use the word to talk about land and buildings too. A drawing you make is your property because you made it.
Prophecy\n\nA prophecy is a guess about what will happen later. It is like a story someone tells before it comes true. Long ago, special people called oracles gave prophecies in old lands. Some people think a prophecy comes from God. It can be about a big storm, a new leader, or the end of the world. A prophecy can be wrong, and many guesses do not come true. Sometimes, if you believe a prophecy, you act in a way that makes it happen.
Prose\n\nProse is the way people talk and write every day. It looks like a group of sentences put together in a block on a page. It does not have a beat or a rhyme like a song or a poem. You can find it in story books, letters, and the news. When you tell a friend about your day, you are using prose.
Prosthesis\n\nA prosthesis is a helper part that takes the place of a missing body part. It can be a leg, an arm, a hand, or a foot. Some people need one because they were born without that part or lost it in an accident. It is made of light, strong stuff so it is easy to move. A leg prosthesis helps a person walk and run. An arm prosthesis helps a person grab things. Some are made just for sports, like running or skiing. A special cup holds it onto the body so it stays on tight.
Protect\n\nTo protect means to keep someone or something safe from harm. It is like when you hold an umbrella over a friend so the rain does not get them wet. A big brother might protect his little sister by holding her hand near a busy street. A warm coat protects you from the cold wind. A fence around a yard protects the flowers so no one steps on them. Even a simple hug can protect a sad heart by making it feel loved.
Protein\n\nProtein is a tiny helper inside your body. It is in the food you eat, like meat, eggs, and beans. It helps you grow tall and strong. It also fixes your body when you get a small cut. Your muscles and bones need it every day.
Protest\n\nA protest is when many people come together to show they are unhappy about something. They might stand in a street or a park. They often hold signs with words or pictures. They can shout, sing, or walk in a big group. Sometimes they do it to ask for a change, like being fair to everyone. A protest can be loud, but it is a way for people to say what they feel.
Protest song\n\nA protest song is a song that asks people to make things better. It has words that say something is not fair. People sing it together when they want to change a rule or help others. You might hear it at a big walk where many people hold signs. It can be fast and loud, or slow and soft. A protest song helps people feel strong when they are sad or angry about something.
Protestantism\n\nProtestantism is a way of following Jesus. It started a long time ago when some people wanted to change the big church. They said the Bible should be the most important guide. Today, many people around the world are part of it. They meet in buildings with a cross on top to sing, pray, and learn about God.
Proton\n\nA proton is a tiny piece inside every atom. It lives in the middle part of the atom, called the center. It is so small you cannot see it, even with a big looking glass. A proton has a happy little push that pulls other tiny pieces close. In water, the smallest atom has just one proton. All the things around you are made of atoms, and every atom has protons inside.
Proud\n\nProud is a happy feeling you get when you do something good. It feels warm and big inside your chest. You might feel it when you learn to tie your shoes all by yourself. You can also feel it when someone you love does something great, like your big sister winning a race. It makes you want to smile and stand up tall.
Provence\n\nProvence is a big, sunny place in the south of France. It has blue sea on one side and tall hills on the other. You can find fields full of purple flowers called lavender there. The air smells sweet and warm. People go to Provence to see old stone houses and eat yummy food. It is a happy place with lots of color and light.
Proverb\n\nA proverb is a short, wise saying. It tells us something true about life. You can hear it when grown-ups talk or in stories. It is like a little rule that helps people be kind or work hard. One you might know is "Look before you leap." That means think before you do something.
Psychiatric hospital\n\nA psychiatric hospital is a place where people go when their feelings or thoughts make them very sick. It has rooms for sleeping, eating, and talking with doctors. The doctors there help people feel better and stay safe. Long ago, these places were like jails, but now they are more like a quiet home with gardens. Some people stay for a short time, and some stay longer. Today, many people get help in small clinics or at home instead.
Psychology\n\nPsychology is the study of how people think and feel. It looks at why we do the things we do. A person who studies this is called a psychologist. They watch people and ask them questions to learn about their minds. They also help people who feel sad or scared. You can see psychology when a teacher helps a child calm down or when a friend shares a toy.
Pterosaur\n\nA pterosaur is a flying animal that lived a long, long time ago. It had wings made of skin, not feathers like a bird. Its wings were big and stretched from its body to a very long finger. Many of them ate fish from the water. Some were small, but a few were as big as a small plane. They lived when dinosaurs walked on land, but they are not dinosaurs. You can see their bones in some big museums.
Pub\n\nA pub is a place where grown-ups go to sit, talk, and have a drink. It is like a cozy room with tables and chairs. You can find it on a street in a town or city. People meet friends there after work. Sometimes it has a sign with a funny picture outside. You might see one when you walk with your family.
Puberty\n\nPuberty is the time when a child's body grows into an adult body. It happens to boys and girls, but in different ways. For girls, it often starts around age 10 and ends around 15. For boys, it often starts around age 12 and ends around 16. During this time, the body changes. Hair grows in new places. Girls grow breasts and start having a monthly bleed. Boys get deeper voices and bigger muscles. Both boys and girls may feel new feelings and think about new things. After puberty, a person can make a baby.
Public\n\nPublic means a group of people. It is not just one person, but many people together. You can find a public at a park, a school, or a library. A public shares something, like a problem or a fun idea. For example, all the kids in your class are a public when they listen to a story.
Public health\n\nPublic health is about keeping people healthy and stopping sickness from spreading. It looks at big groups of people, not just one person. You find it in towns and cities where people work to make sure the water is clean and the air is safe. It helps by teaching people to wash hands, giving shots to stop sickness, and making rules to keep food clean. For example, when you wash your hands before eating, you are doing something that public health teaches.
Public transport\n\nPublic transport is a way to travel without your own car. It is a big vehicle that many people ride together. You can find it in towns and cities, like a bus on the road or a train on tracks. It takes you to places near your house or far away. A bus is one kind you might see every day.
Publishing\n\nPublishing is making stories and pictures so many people can see them. It turns words into books, magazines, and things you can read on a screen. A person who writes the story is called an author. The publisher prints the pages and puts them together. You can find published books at a library, a store, or on a tablet. When you read a bedtime story, someone published that book just for you.
Puddle\n\nA puddle is a small pool of water on the ground. It forms after rain falls and the water cannot soak into the dirt. You can find it on a sidewalk, a road, or in a grassy spot. It is fun to jump in and make a splash. When the sun comes out, it slowly dries up and goes away.
Puerto Rico\n\nPuerto Rico is a big island in the warm blue sea. It belongs to the United States, but it is not a state. It has green hills, sandy beaches, and a busy city called San Juan. People there speak Spanish and English. They use dollars to buy things, just like in the United States. Many people visit Puerto Rico to swim, play on the beach, and see old forts.
Puff\n\nA puff is a short, soft blow of air. It can come from your mouth when you blow out a candle. You can also feel a puff of wind on your face outside. Some things, like a dandelion, fly away when you give them a puff. It is quick and light, not strong like a big wind.
Pufferfish\n\nA pufferfish is a fish that can blow up like a ball. It has a round body and four big teeth that look like a beak. It lives in warm ocean water, near rocks and coral. When it feels scared, it drinks a lot of water fast and gets big and round. This helps it stay safe from bigger fish. Some pufferfish have tiny spikes on their skin. It eats small hard-shelled animals like crabs and clams. Its body has a strong poison, so people should never touch or eat it unless a special cook makes it safe. You might see one in a big fish tank at an aquarium.
Pull\n\nA pull is when you grab something and move it closer to you. It is the opposite of a push, where you move something away. You can pull a door to open it, or pull a wagon behind you. When you pull a rope, you use your arms and hands. A dog might pull on its leash when it wants to run. Pulling helps you move things that are too heavy to lift.
Pulley\n\nA pulley is a simple tool that helps lift heavy things. It has a wheel with a rope or chain around it. You can find it on a flagpole, a crane, or a window blind. When you pull down on the rope, the heavy thing goes up. It makes lifting feel easier. A builder uses it to move big blocks.
Pulse\n\nA pulse is a little thump you can feel in your body. It happens when your heart pushes blood through tiny tubes under your skin. You can feel it on your wrist or on the side of your neck. It beats faster when you run and slower when you rest. A doctor listens to it to check if you are healthy.
Puma\n\nA puma is a big wild cat. It has tan fur, a long tail, and strong legs. It lives in mountains and forests in the west of North America and in South America. It hunts at night and eats meat like deer and rabbits. It cannot roar, but it can purr and hiss. A baby puma is called a cub or kitten.
Pump\n\nA pump is a tool that moves water or air from one place to another. It has a tube and a handle or a motor. You can find a pump on a bike to fill the tires with air. It is also used in a fish tank to keep the water clean. When you push or turn the pump, it pushes the water or air out.
Pumpkin\n\nA pumpkin is a big, round fruit that grows on a vine. It is usually orange, but it can be purple, red, blue, or white. It has a thick skin, a soft inside, and many seeds. You can find it in a garden or at a farm. People cook it to make pie or soup. They also cut a face into it to make a glowing light for Halloween. The seeds can be cleaned, cooked, and eaten as a snack.
Punch\n\nA punch is a hit with a closed hand. It happens when someone makes a fist and pushes it forward fast. You might see a punch in a cartoon when a hero fights a bad guy. It can hurt, so it is not nice to do to friends. People learn to punch in a safe place called a gym, with big soft gloves on their hands.
Pune\n\nPune is a big city in India. It has many schools and places to learn, so people call it a city of learning. Two rivers flow through it, and it has old buildings and museums to visit. Many people live there, and they celebrate a big happy festival with music and food. You can see buses, cars, and lots of people on the streets.
Punjabi language\n\nPunjabi language is a way people talk. It comes from a place called Punjab, which is in two big countries, India and Pakistan. Many people speak it at home with their family. It has its own special letters to write with, called Gurmukhi in India and Shahmukhi in Pakistan. You can hear it in songs, stories, and when people pray at a Sikh temple.
Punk rock\n\nPunk rock is a kind of loud, fast music. It uses guitars, drums, and singing. The singing can sound angry or shouty. People who play it often wear bright hair colors and clothes that look different. They want to say that rules can be wrong and that people should think for themselves. You might hear it at a show or on the radio.
Pupa\n\nA pupa is a little home where some bugs change into grown-ups. It is a hard shell that keeps the bug safe inside. You can find it hanging from a leaf or a branch. Inside, a caterpillar slowly turns into a butterfly or a moth. A butterfly pupa is called a chrysalis. A moth pupa is called a cocoon. When the change is done, a pretty butterfly or moth comes out.
Puppet\n\nA puppet is a toy that looks like a person or an animal. It can be made of cloth, wood, or paper. A person hides behind it or puts a hand inside to make it move. The person talks in a funny voice so it seems like the puppet is talking. You can see puppets in shows on a stage or on TV. Some puppets have strings that make them dance. Others fit on your hand like a glove. A simple one you can make at home is a sock puppet. You put your hand in an old sock and draw a face on it.
Puppy\n\nA puppy is a baby dog. It is very small and has soft, fluffy fur. You can find a puppy in a home with a family or at a farm. It likes to play, run, and chew on toys. A puppy drinks milk from its mom and sleeps a lot. When it grows up, it becomes a big dog.
Pure\n\nPure means something is very clean and has nothing else mixed in. It looks clear, like water from a new bottle. You can find pure things in nature, like fresh snow before anyone walks on it. People use the word to talk about water, air, or even a color that is not mixed with other colors. A good example is a glass of water that has no dirt or juice in it—just water.
Purple\n\nPurple is a color you can see. It is made when you mix blue and red together. You can find it in a bunch of grapes, a pretty flower, or a soft blanket. A long, long time ago, people made purple from tiny sea animals. It was a special color for kings and queens. Today, you can color with a purple crayon or wear a purple shirt.
Purr\n\nA purr is a soft, rumbling sound that a cat makes. It sounds like a tiny motor running inside the cat. You hear it when the cat is happy and cozy, like when it sits on a lap. A cat may also purr when it feels safe and sleepy. It is a quiet, warm sound that makes people smile.
Purse\n\nA purse is a small bag. It has a handle or a strap. People carry it in their hand or on their shoulder. It holds things like money, keys, and a phone. You might see a purse at a store or with a grown-up.
Push\n\nA push is when you use your hands to move something away from you. It is a strong move that makes a thing go forward. You can push a toy car on the floor, or push a door to open it. When you push a swing, it goes up and away. Sometimes you push a friend on a bike to help them start. A push is the opposite of a pull, which brings things closer.
Put\n\nPut means to place something down. You can put a toy on the floor or put a book on a shelf. When you put your shoes on, you slide your feet into them. It is a simple action you do many times every day.
Puzzle\n\nA puzzle is a fun game that makes you think. It has pieces or parts that you must put together or figure out. You can find puzzles in books, on paper, or on a computer. When you play with a puzzle, you look at colors, shapes, or letters to solve it. A jigsaw puzzle is one kind where you fit flat pieces to make a picture. Puzzles help your brain grow strong.
Pyjama\n\nA pyjama is a soft set of clothes you wear to bed. It has a top and pants that feel cozy on your skin. You can find it in your drawer or closet at home. People put it on at night to sleep comfortably. It often has fun prints like stars, animals, or stripes.
Pyramid\n\nA pyramid is a big stone shape with a flat bottom and four sides that meet at a point on top. It looks like a triangle from the side. You can find pyramids in Egypt, where they were built long ago for kings and queens. People used them as special houses for the dead, with rooms and treasures inside. The biggest one is the Great Pyramid, and it is still standing today.
Pyrenees\n\nThe Pyrenees are big, tall mountains. They sit between two countries called France and Spain. They stretch a long way from one big sea to another big sea. In winter, the tops are white with snow. In summer, people walk up the green slopes. Some people ski down the snowy parts when it is cold.
Qatar\n\nQatar is a small country far away. It is on a piece of land that sticks out into warm blue water. Most of it is dry and sandy. People find a lot of oil and gas under the ground there. Many big buildings and tall towers stand in its main city. A big soccer game with teams from all over the world was played there.
Qin Shi Huang\n\nQin Shi Huang was a king a long, long time ago. He was the first person to bring all of China together under one rule. He had a big clay army made to guard him after he died. People can see parts of that army in a museum today.
Quadrilateral\n\nA quadrilateral is a flat shape with four straight sides. It has four corners where the sides meet. You can find it in many places, like a picture frame, a window, or a book cover. Some quadrilaterals have sides that are the same length, like a square. Others have two long sides and two short sides, like a door. When you draw a shape with four sides, you make a quadrilateral.
Quake\n\nA quake is when the ground shakes very hard. It can make buildings wiggle and things fall off shelves. It happens deep under the ground when big rocks move. Sometimes it feels like a big truck driving by, but it is the earth moving. After a quake, there can be small shakes called aftershocks.
Quantum\n\nQuantum is a tiny, tiny piece of something. It is so small you cannot see it with your eyes. Scientists study it to learn how the smallest things in the world work. It is like the smallest block that makes up light or energy. You can think of it as a very small dot that helps things like computers and lights do their job.
Quantum Mechanics\n\nQuantum mechanics is a set of rules about very tiny things. It tells us how tiny bits like atoms and light move and act. These rules are not like the rules for big things we can see. For example, a tiny bit can be in two places at the same time. Scientists use these rules to make computers and phones work.
Quarry\n\nA quarry is a big hole in the ground where people dig out rocks. It is like a giant sandbox, but with hard stone. Workers use big machines to cut the rock into blocks. These blocks are used to build houses, walls, and roads. Sometimes, when the digging is done, the hole fills with rain and becomes a small lake.
Quarter\n\nA quarter is a coin that is worth 25 cents. It is round and flat, and it has a shiny silver color. You can find it in a piggy bank or in your pocket. People use it to buy small things like a gumball or a sticker. It is bigger than a dime but smaller than a half-dollar.
Quartz\n\nQuartz is a hard, shiny rock found in the ground. It can be clear like glass or have colors like purple, pink, or smoky gray. You can find it in sand at the beach or in big rocks on a mountain. People use it to make pretty jewelry like necklaces and rings. Some clocks have a tiny piece of quartz inside to help them keep time.
Quebec\n\nQuebec is a big piece of land in Canada. It is in the east part of the country. Most people there speak French, not English. It has many trees, rivers, and lakes. The biggest city is Montreal, and the capital is Quebec City. In winter, it gets very cold and snowy. Many people visit to see old stone buildings and eat a sweet treat called maple taffy.
Queen\n\nA queen is a woman who is the leader of a country. She wears a shiny crown on her head and lives in a big house called a castle. People see her in parades or on special days. She helps make rules and takes care of her people. In stories, a queen might sit on a throne and wave to a crowd.
Quest\n\nA quest is a long, hard trip to find something or do something important. It is like a big adventure with a goal at the end. In stories, a brave person goes on a quest to find a hidden treasure or save a friend. Along the way, they may meet new people and solve puzzles. You can have a small quest too, like looking for a lost toy in your house.
Question\n\nA question is when you ask something because you want to know more. It often starts with words like who, what, where, when, why, or how. You use it when you are curious or do not understand. For example, you might ask, "What is for lunch?" or "Where is my toy?" When you ask a question, someone can give you an answer. It helps you learn new things every day.
Queue\n\nA queue is a line of people or things waiting for their turn. It looks like a row where the first one to join is the first one to go. You can see it at a store when people wait to pay, or at a bus stop when people wait to get on. People stand in it to be fair, so everyone gets a turn. It is like when you and your friends line up to go outside for playtime.
Quick\n\nQuick means something happens very fast. It is like when you run to catch a ball before it hits the ground. You can be quick with your hands, your feet, or your thinking. A quick snack is one you eat in a short time. A quick look is when you see something for just a moment. Being quick helps when you are in a race or when you need to answer a question right away.
Quickly\n\nQuickly means doing something very fast. When you run quickly, your legs move fast. If you eat quickly, you finish your food in a short time. You might see a squirrel move quickly up a tree. It is the opposite of slowly.
Quiet\n\nQuiet means no loud sounds. It is when a room is still and you can hear tiny things, like a clock tick or a soft breath. You find quiet in a library, at bedtime, or early in the morning. People like quiet when they read, sleep, or think. A whisper is a quiet way to talk.
Quietly\n\nQuietly means doing something with very little sound. When you walk quietly, your feet do not make a loud noise. You can talk quietly by using a soft, low voice. It is a good way to act when a baby is sleeping or in a library. You might hear the word when a grown-up says, "Please play quietly."
Quinoa\n\nQuinoa is a tiny seed that people cook and eat like rice. It looks like small round beads and can be white, red, or black. You find it in a store in a bag or a box. People boil it in water until it gets soft and fluffy. It tastes a little nutty and fills your tummy. You can eat it with veggies or beans for lunch or dinner.
Quite\n\nQuite means very much or a lot. When you are quite happy, you have a big smile on your face. If a room is quite dark, you cannot see well. It can also mean almost, like when you are quite done with your snack. You might say, "I am quite tired" after a long day of play.
Quiz\n\nA quiz is a fun game where you answer questions. It can be played alone or with a team. A teacher or a game leader asks the questions, and you try to give the right answer. You get points for each right answer. The person or team with the most points wins. You might see a quiz at school or on TV.
Quote\n\nA quote is a group of words someone said or wrote. It is like a little box that holds their words so other people can read or hear them. You can find quotes in books, on signs, or when grown-ups talk. People use quotes to share a smart or funny idea. For example, your teacher might put a quote on the wall that says, "Be kind to everyone."
Qur'an\n\nThe Qur'an is a very special book for people called Muslims. It is their most important holy book. They believe it has words from God, given to a man named Muhammad long ago. It is written in the Arabic language. Muslims read it to learn how to be good and kind. They keep it in a clean, safe place and treat it with great care.
Quran\n\nThe Quran is a special book for people who follow Islam. It has many pages with words that teach about God. People read it in a place called a mosque or at home. They treat it with care and keep it on a high shelf. Many children learn to say parts of it out loud.
Ra\n\nRa is a god from long-ago Egypt. He is the god of the sun. People in Egypt thought he made the sun come up each morning. He looks like a man with the head of a bird called a falcon. On his head he wears a round sun. Every day he rides a boat across the sky. At night he goes under the world and comes back the next morning. He was the most important god to the people of Egypt.
Rabbi\n\nA rabbi is a teacher in the Jewish religion. He or she knows a lot about the holy book called the Torah. You can find a rabbi in a synagogue, which is a Jewish place of prayer. A rabbi teaches people about God and how to be kind. He or she also helps at weddings and baby namings. Sometimes a rabbi checks food to make sure it is okay to eat. Three rabbis can work together to solve problems between people.
Rabbit\n\nA rabbit is a small, furry animal with long ears. It has soft fur, a short fluffy tail, and strong back legs for hopping. You can find it in fields, woods, or sometimes in a hutch at home as a pet. It eats grass, hay, and crunchy vegetables like carrots. A rabbit digs a hole called a burrow to live in with its family. It has big eyes on the sides of its head to watch for danger. When it is scared, it runs fast and hides in its burrow. A baby rabbit is called a kit.
Rabies\n\nRabies is a very bad sickness that animals can give to people. It is caused by a tiny germ that gets into the body through a bite or a scratch. The germ travels to the brain and makes it swell. A person with rabies may feel scared of water and cannot drink. Dogs, bats, and other wild animals can carry it. If a person is bitten, a doctor can give a special shot to stop the sickness, but it must be done fast. Once a person feels sick, there is no fix. That is why we give pets a shot to keep them safe.
Rabindranath Tagore\n\nRabindranath Tagore was a man from India who wrote poems and songs. He had a long white beard and kind eyes. He lived a long time ago, but people still read his words today. He wrote a song that became the special song for his whole country. He also drew pictures and started a school where children could learn outside under the trees.
Raccoon\n\nA raccoon is a small wild animal with a bushy tail. It has gray fur, a pointy nose, and a black mask around its eyes. It lives in woods, but sometimes it comes into towns to look for food. It uses its front paws like little hands to pick up things and wash them in water. At night, it climbs trees and looks for berries, nuts, or food people throw away. You might see one near a park or a trash can after dark.
Race\n\nA race is when people or animals try to go fast to see who is first. It can be running with your legs, riding a bike, or swimming in water. You might see a race at school on sports day or on TV with fast cars. The person who gets to the end first wins a prize or a ribbon. It is fun to cheer for someone in a race.
Racism\n\nRacism is when people are mean to others because of their skin color or where they come from. It can be saying unkind words or not letting someone play. It hurts people's feelings and is not fair. Everyone should be kind and treat others the way they want to be treated.
Racket\n\nA racket is a tool you hold in your hand. It has a long handle and a round or oval head with strings pulled tight across it. You see it in games like tennis or badminton. People use it to hit a ball or a small flying toy back and forth. If you watch a tennis game on TV, you will see players swing a racket.
Radar\n\nA radar is a machine that finds things far away. It sends out tiny waves we cannot see or hear. When the waves hit something like a plane or a ship, they bounce back to the machine. It then shows where that thing is and how far away it sits. People use it to watch the sky for planes and to see rain coming. Some police officers use a small one to check how fast cars go on the road.
Radiation\n\nRadiation is energy that moves through the air or space. It is like tiny waves or bits that you cannot see. Some kinds come from the sun and give us light and warmth. Other kinds can be harmful if there is too much, like the rays that cause a sunburn. Doctors use a safe kind to take pictures of the inside of your body, called an X-ray.
Radio\n\nA radio is a box that catches invisible waves from the air. It has a button or a dial to turn it on and off. You can find a radio in a car, at home, or in a kitchen. It plays music, tells the news, and people talk on it. When you hear a song in the car, that is the radio working.
Radio broadcasting\n\nRadio broadcasting is a way to send sounds through the air. It uses invisible waves that travel far from a tall tower. You need a radio box at home or in a car to catch the waves and turn them back into sounds. People use it to listen to music, stories, and news. A radio can play songs even when you are far away from the singers. Many families turn on the radio in the morning to hear the weather.
Radio wave\n\nA radio wave is a kind of energy that moves through the air. It is like a tiny, invisible wave, similar to waves in the ocean, but you cannot see it. It can travel very far and go through walls. People use it to send sounds and pictures. For example, when you listen to music in the car, the radio catches these waves and turns them into songs. Your phone also uses it to talk to someone far away.
Radioactive\n\nRadioactive means something gives off tiny bits of energy that you cannot see. It is like a hidden light that can go through things. Some rocks deep in the ground are radioactive. It can be used in hospitals to take pictures of the inside of your body. Too much of it can hurt you, so people stay far away from it.
Radish\n\nA radish is a small, round vegetable that grows under the ground. It has a red or white skin and a white inside. You can find it in a garden or at a food store. People eat it raw in salads because it is crunchy. It has a sharp, hot taste that can make your tongue feel funny. Some radishes are big, and some are tiny. You can also cut it into thin slices and put it on a sandwich.
Raft\n\nA raft is a flat thing that floats on water. It is made of wood, plastic, or air-filled tubes tied together. You can find it on a lake, a river, or a pool. People sit or stand on it and use a long stick to push it along. Sometimes a raft is used for fun, like a big floaty toy. You might see one at a water park or in a story about a river.
Rage\n\nRage is a very big, hot feeling of anger. It can make your face turn red and your hands shake. When someone feels rage, they might want to yell or stomp their feet. It is like a storm inside the body. After the storm passes, the person often feels tired. It is okay to feel rage, but it is important not to hurt anyone. Taking deep breaths can help the feeling go away.
Rail\n\nA rail is a long, hard bar made of metal. It looks like a straight line on the ground. You find it on train tracks, where two rails run side by side. Trains roll on top of it to move people and things from one place to another. If you have ever seen a train go by, you have seen a rail.
Rail transport\n\nRail transport is a way to move people and things on a track. It uses long cars called trains that roll on two metal lines. You can see it at a train station in a city or town. It carries many people to work and school, and it also carries big heavy boxes of food and toys. A train can go very fast and does not get stuck in car traffic. Some trains run on electricity and some run on a special fuel. A child might see a train when a crossing gate goes down and the train zooms by with a loud horn.
Railway track\n\nA railway track is a long path made of two shiny steel bars. It lies flat on the ground and goes very far. You can see it outside when a train goes by. The bars sit on big pieces of wood or stone that keep them in place. Trains roll on it to carry people and heavy things from one town to another. Sometimes one track is for trains going one way, and another track is for trains going the other way.
Rain\n\nRain is water that falls from clouds in the sky. It comes down as tiny drops. You see it when the sky gets dark and gray. It makes the ground wet and helps plants grow. After it stops, you might see a rainbow in the sky.
Rainbow\n\nA rainbow is a big, colorful curve of light in the sky. It has seven colors: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet. Red is on the outside, and violet is on the inside. You can see it when the sun shines through rain. It always appears on the side of the sky opposite the sun. Sometimes you can see a second, dimmer rainbow above the first one. Rainbows can also show up near waterfalls or when you spray water on a sunny day. It is really a full circle, but from the ground, we only see the top part.
Raincoat\n\nA raincoat is a special coat that keeps you dry when it rains. It is made from smooth, shiny stuff that water cannot go through. You wear it over your other clothes when you go outside on a wet day. It often has a hood to cover your head and keep your hair dry. Some raincoats are yellow, but they can be any color. You might see one hanging by the door at home or at school.
Rainforest\n\nA rainforest is a thick, wet forest. It has many tall trees that grow close together. Rain falls there almost every day, so the ground stays muddy and damp. Many animals live in a rainforest, like colorful birds, monkeys, and big bugs. It is very warm and green all year long. You can find rainforests in faraway places near the big, warm middle of the world.
Rainy\n\nRainy means a day when water falls from the sky. It looks like tiny drops that make everything wet. You see rainy days when clouds turn dark and gray. On a rainy day, people use umbrellas and wear boots to stay dry. Rainy weather helps flowers and trees grow big and strong.
Raise\n\nRaise means to lift something up. You can raise your hand in class when you want to speak. You can raise a flag up a pole. When you raise a cup, you move it higher. It is the opposite of lower.
Rajasthan\n\nRajasthan is a big piece of land in India. It is the biggest state in the country. Much of it is covered by a sandy desert called the Thar Desert. The main city is Jaipur, which is also called the Pink City. Many different groups of people live there. They have bright clothes, fun dances, and old stories. Long ago, many small kings ruled different parts of this land.
Rake\n\nA rake is a tool for the garden. It has a long stick and a row of teeth at the end. You hold the stick and pull the teeth over the ground. It picks up leaves, grass, and little sticks. People use it in the fall when leaves drop from trees. It also helps make the dirt soft for new plants.
Rama\n\nRama is a hero from very old stories in India. He is a kind prince with a bow and arrow. Many people in India and nearby places tell stories about him. In the stories, he goes on a long walk in the woods with his wife Sita and his brother. A bad king with ten heads takes Sita away. Rama and his brother look for her with help from a monkey friend. They fight the bad king and bring Sita back home. People love Rama because he is brave and good. They build big, pretty houses called temples to remember him.
Ramayana\n\nThe Ramayana is a very old story from India. It tells about a prince named Rama and his wife Sita. A bad king takes Sita away, and Rama goes to save her with help from animal friends. People still tell this story today with plays and shows.
Ramesses Ii\n\nRamesses II was a king of Egypt a long, long time ago. He lived in a big stone house called a palace. He had a tall hat and a stick that showed he was the boss. People made big stone pictures of him that you can still see today. He was a very strong king who helped his land grow big.
Ranch\n\nA ranch is a big piece of land with lots of open space. It has fields, barns, and fences. People live and work on a ranch. They take care of animals like cows, horses, and sheep. The animals eat grass and walk around. You might see a ranch when you drive in the country. Cowboys and cowgirls ride horses to help move the animals.
Range\n\nA range is a big open space where animals can walk and eat grass. It has lots of land with no fences. You can find it in places with hills and wide fields. Cows and sheep live on a range and eat the plants that grow there. Some people ride horses on a range to watch the animals.
Rank\n\nA rank is a place in a line from best to last. It tells you who is first, second, third, and so on. In a race, the fastest runner gets the top rank. In school, your teacher may put names in rank order for a game. It helps people see how things compare.
Rapeseed\n\nRapeseed is a plant with bright yellow flowers. It grows in big fields where it looks like a yellow blanket. People pick its seeds to make oil for cooking. The oil is also used in some foods like salad dressing. You might see it growing on a farm when you ride in a car.
Rapid transit\n\nRapid transit is a kind of train that moves many people fast inside a city. It has long cars with many doors and seats. It runs on its own track, often in tunnels under the ground or on bridges above the street. People use it to go to work, school, or the store without a car. It stops at stations where people get on and off. Some cities call it a metro, subway, or the tube.
Rapids\n\nRapids are parts of a river where the water moves very fast. It looks like white, bubbly water splashing over rocks. You find it in rivers near hills or mountains. The water rushes and makes a loud, happy sound. Some people ride in a small boat over it for fun. That sport is called rafting.
Rapping\n\nRapping is a way of talking with a beat. It sounds like fast talking that goes up and down with the music. You can hear it in songs on the radio or on a phone. A person who does it is called a rapper. They use their voice to tell a story or make rhymes. Sometimes a rapper talks about their day or things they see. Many kids like to move their head and dance when they hear it.
Raspberry\n\nA raspberry is a small, soft fruit that grows on a bush. It looks like a tiny red cap made of many little round bumps. You can find it in gardens, at farms, or in the store. People eat it fresh, put it on top of cereal, or use it to make sweet jam. It tastes a little sour and a little sweet. When you pick it, the inside is hollow like a tiny cup.
Rat\n\nA rat is a small animal with a long tail. It has four legs, two small ears, and a pointy nose. It can be brown, black, or white. Rats live in many places, like cities, fields, and sewers. They eat many kinds of food, like seeds, fruit, and leftovers from people. Some people keep rats as pets. A pet rat is soft and can learn to do tricks. It likes to play with toys and can be very friendly.
Rate\n\nA rate is how fast something happens. It tells you how many times a thing takes place in a certain amount of time. For example, your heart beats at a rate of many times each minute. When you run, your breathing rate goes up. A clock ticks at a steady rate. You can also have a rate for how fast a car goes, like miles per hour.
Ratio\n\nA ratio is a way to compare two amounts. It tells you how much of one thing there is compared to another thing. You can find it when you mix things, like two cups of water for every one cup of rice. It helps people follow recipes or share things fairly. For example, if you have three apples and two oranges, the ratio of apples to oranges is three to two.
Rattle\n\nA rattle is a toy that makes a fun sound when you shake it. It is small and light so a baby can hold it in one hand. You can find it in a baby's room or in a toy box. When you move it back and forth, little bits inside hit the sides and make a clicky noise. It often looks like a ball on a stick, and some have bright colors or a smiling face. A baby smiles and laughs when someone shakes a rattle nearby.
Rattlesnake\n\nA rattlesnake is a kind of snake with a special tail that makes a loud buzzing sound. It has a long body with no legs, and it slides on the ground. It lives in dry, hot places like deserts and rocky hills. The tail has hard parts at the end that shake fast to make a rattle noise. This noise tells big animals to stay away. It eats small animals like mice and birds. A rattlesnake can bite, and its bite can hurt a lot, so people should never touch one.
Raven\n\nA raven is a big black bird. It looks like a crow, but it is bigger. Its feathers are all black and shiny. You can see it in many places, like woods, mountains, or even cities. It makes a loud, deep sound. Some people think it is very smart. It can learn tricks and even copy sounds. In a famous story, a raven visits a sad man and says one word over and over.
Raw\n\nRaw means something is not cooked. It is food the way it comes from the ground or from an animal. You can eat some things raw, like a crunchy carrot or a sweet apple. But some foods, like chicken or eggs, must be cooked first so they are safe to eat. When you bite a raw carrot, it is hard and makes a loud sound.
Ray\n\nA ray is a flat fish that lives in the ocean. It has a wide body and a long, thin tail. It swims by moving its big side fins up and down, like a bird flying in water. You can find it on the sandy bottom of the sea. Some rays have a sharp sting on their tail to stay safe.
Reach\n\nReach is when you stretch your arm or hand to try to touch or grab something. It means moving your body a little to get closer to a thing. You reach for a toy on a high shelf. You reach for a cookie in a jar. You reach for a friend's hand to hold it. When you reach, your arm gets long and your fingers open wide. It feels like a little stretch in your side. You can reach up, reach down, or reach across. Every day you reach for many things without even thinking.
Reaction\n\nA reaction is something that happens because of something else. It is like when you push a ball and it rolls away. Your body can have a reaction too, like when you touch something hot and pull your hand back fast. In a kitchen, mixing baking soda and vinegar makes a bubbly reaction. It is a change you can see or feel.
Read\n\nTo read is to look at words and understand what they say. It is something you learn in school with your teacher. When you read, your eyes move across the page and your brain turns the letters into a story or a message. You can read a book, a sign, or a card from a friend. Reading helps you learn new things and go on adventures without leaving your chair.
Reader\n\nA reader is a person who looks at words in a book or on a page. It uses its eyes to follow the letters and its brain to understand the story. You can find a reader at home, in school, or at the library. It reads to learn new things or to have fun with a tale. When you sit with a picture book and turn the pages, you are a reader too.
Reading\n\nReading is looking at words and knowing what they say. It is a way to learn from books, signs, and papers. You can read a story about a talking bear or a note from your mom. Long ago, many people could not read, but now kids learn it in school. When you read, you can visit new places in your mind without leaving your room.
Ready\n\nReady means you are all set to do something. It is a feeling when your shoes are on and you can go out the door. When you are ready, you do not need to wait for anything else. You can be ready for school, ready for a snack, or ready for a story. It feels good to be ready because you can start right away.
Real\n\nReal means something that is true and not made up. It is the opposite of pretend or fake. A real dog barks and wags its tail, but a toy dog does not. You can touch a real flower and smell it. When you see a real rainbow in the sky, it has bright colors after rain. Real things are all around you every day.
Real Number\n\nA real number is any number you can find on a number line. It can be a counting number like 1, 2, or 3. It can also be a number with a dot, like 2.5 or 3.14. You see it when you count toys, measure how tall you are, or look at a clock. It helps us know how many, how much, or how long something is.
Realism\n\nRealism is a way of making art or telling stories. It tries to show things just as they are in real life. When you draw a picture of your house and you draw every window and door the way it really looks, that is realism. It does not add magic or make-believe parts. Some painters use realism to show people working or sitting at a table. Some writers use realism to tell stories about everyday life. They want you to feel like the story could really happen. Realism helps us see the world clearly, without pretending it is different.
Reality\n\nReality is everything that is real. It is the world around you that you can see, hear, and touch. Your bed, your toys, and your family are all part of reality. It is not a dream or a made-up story. When you wake up in the morning, you are back in reality. Some things you cannot touch, like love or a happy feeling, are still real because they happen inside you. On TV, some shows show real people doing real things, and people call that reality TV.
Reality television\n\nReality television is a kind of TV show with real people, not actors. It shows them doing funny things, playing games, or living together. You can watch it at home on a TV. One show is called Big Brother, where people stay in a house and cameras watch them all day. Sometimes the show is not fully real because people are told what to do.
Really\n\nReally is a word we use when we want to say something is true. It can mean "for sure" or "no kidding." When you say "I really like ice cream," it means you like it a lot. You hear it when someone is surprised, like "Really?" It helps show strong feelings about what you say.
Rear\n\nA rear is the back part of something. It is the side you do not see when you look at the front. You can find a rear on a car, a house, or a toy. When you walk behind a person, you are at their rear. A rear door is the door at the back of a building.
Reason\n\nReason is a way of thinking with your head. It means you look at facts and use them to decide what is true. When you use reason, you do not just feel something in your heart. You stop and think about what makes sense. For example, if you see dark clouds, you can use reason to know it might rain. You can also use reason to pick the best toy by thinking about which one you like more and why.
Rebel\n\nA rebel is a person who says no to rules. He does not follow what others tell him to do. Sometimes a rebel fights against a leader or a group. He may want to change things he thinks are wrong. In stories, a rebel can be a hero who helps people. But in real life, a rebel can get in trouble for not listening.
Recipe\n\nA recipe is a set of steps that tells you how to make food. It lists the things you need, like flour, eggs, and sugar. You can find a recipe in a book, on a box, or on a screen. Mom or Dad reads it to know what to mix and how long to cook. When you follow a recipe, you can make yummy things like cookies or a cake.
Record\n\nA record is a big, flat, black circle that plays music. It has tiny lines that go around and around, like a spiral. You put it on a special machine called a record player. The machine has a little arm with a needle that sits on the record. When the record spins, the needle feels the tiny lines and makes the music come out. You can see a record in some homes or at a store that sells old music.
Recorder\n\nA recorder is a long, thin tube that makes music when you blow into it. It has holes along the top that you cover with your fingers to change the sound. You hold it in front of you and blow gently into the bigger end. Many children learn to play it at school because it is light and easy to hold. It can make high, happy notes that sound a little like a bird singing. Some recorders are made of wood, and some are made of bright plastic. You can play it alone or with friends in a group.
Recreation\n\nRecreation is fun time that makes your body and mind feel happy and fresh. It can be many different things, like playing a game, reading a book, or listening to music. You can do it at home, in a park, or at the beach. Some people like to draw, some like to run, and some like to watch a movie. It helps you rest after work or school. When you play with your friends, that is recreation too.
Rectangle\n\nA rectangle is a flat shape with four sides. It has four corners that look like the corner of a book. Two sides are long, and two sides are short. You can find it in many places, like a door, a window, or a piece of paper. People use it to make tables, boxes, and picture frames. A square is a special kind where all four sides are the same length.
Recycle\n\nRecycle means using old things to make new things. It helps keep our Earth clean. You can recycle paper, plastic bottles, and cans. When you put these in a special bin, a truck takes them away. Then people turn them into new paper, new bottles, or new cans. Recycling is good because we use less new stuff from the ground.
Recycling\n\nRecycling is a way to turn old things into new things. It means we do not throw away paper, glass, plastic, or metal. Instead, we put them in a special bin. A big truck takes the bin to a place where people and machines sort the stuff. Then they clean it and break it into tiny bits. Those bits get melted and shaped into new things like a bench or a toy. Recycling helps keep the ground and water clean. It also saves trees and energy. When you put a milk bottle in the blue bin, you are recycling.
Red\n\nRed is a color. It is the color you see at the top of a rainbow. You can find it on a fire truck, a stop sign, and a ripe strawberry. People use red to say "stop" or "be careful." It is a bright, warm color that is easy to see from far away.
Red algae\n\nRed algae is a kind of plant that lives in water. It looks red because it has a special color inside. You can find it in the big, warm sea near the shore. Some people use it to make a flat, green-black food called nori that wraps around rice. It grows in groups and can be very small or as big as a bush.
Red blood cell\n\nA red blood cell is a tiny part of your blood. It is round and flat, like a little pillow. It is red because it has a special helper inside. This helper grabs air from your lungs and carries it all over your body. Every part of you needs this air to stay alive. Red blood cells are so small you cannot see them without a big glass that makes things look bigger. They travel through your body in tubes called blood vessels. Your heart pushes them along, like a water pump. They go to your lungs to pick up fresh air, then to your heart, and then to your toes, fingers, and brain. After they drop off the air, they go back to the lungs for more. They work all day and all night to keep you strong.
Red deer\n\nA red deer is a big animal with four long legs and brown fur. It has a short tail and big ears that stand up. The boy deer has big, branch-like horns on its head. It lives in forests and grassy hills in many parts of the world. It eats grass, leaves, and small plants. People sometimes eat its meat for food.
Red giant\n\nA red giant is a huge, old star. It looks red or orange and is very, very big. You can see some red giants in the night sky, like the bright star called Betelgeuse. It used to be a smaller star like our Sun, but it grew much bigger when it got old. A red giant is so big that it could hold thousands of our Suns inside it.
Red Sea\n\nThe Red Sea is a big body of water between Africa and Asia. It is long and not very wide. The water is very clear and has a lot of salt. Sometimes it looks a little red because of tiny red plants in the water. Big boats use it to go from one ocean to another. People like to swim and dive there to see pretty fish and colorful rocks under the water. Many families go there for a warm vacation in winter.
Red-eared slider\n\nA red-eared slider is a turtle that lives in water and on land. It has a hard shell on its back and a red mark near each ear. You can find it in warm places like ponds and slow rivers. Many people keep it as a pet at home. It eats small water bugs, plants, and special turtle food. If you see one, it might slide off a rock into the water very fast.
Redwood\n\nA redwood is a very tall, big tree. It has a thick, brown trunk and green, needle-like leaves. You can find it in forests near the ocean in a place called California. It grows so tall that it can touch the sky. Its bark is strong and can stay safe when a fire comes. Some redwood trees are bigger around than a car. People come from far away just to look at them.
Reflection (physics)\n\nReflection is when light bounces off a shiny thing. It happens when light hits a smooth, flat surface like a mirror or a calm lake. You can see your face in a mirror because of it. When you look into a still puddle, you see the sky and trees upside down. People use it to make things like telescopes that help us see faraway stars.
Reflex\n\nA reflex is a fast move your body makes all by itself. It happens when something touches you, scares you, or surprises you. You do not have to think about it at all. For example, if you touch something very hot, your hand pulls away quickly before you even feel the burn. Another reflex is when the doctor taps your knee and your leg kicks out. These moves keep you safe without waiting for your brain to decide.
Refraction\n\nRefraction is when light changes its path. It happens when light moves from one clear thing into another, like from air into water. When light goes into water, it slows down and bends a little. You can see this when you put a straw in a glass of water. The straw looks like it is broken or bent at the water line. That is because the light bends as it goes from air to water. A rainbow is also made by refraction. Light goes through tiny drops of water in the sky and bends, splitting into many colors.
Refrigeration\n\nRefrigeration is a way to keep food cold. It uses a special box called a fridge. The fridge has a cold air maker inside it. When you put milk or fruit in the fridge, it stays fresh longer. Many homes have a fridge in the kitchen. Without it, food would go bad fast.
Refrigerator\n\nA refrigerator is a big box that keeps food cold. It has a door and shelves inside. You find it in the kitchen at home. People put milk, fruit, and leftovers in it so the food stays fresh longer. When you open the door, a light comes on and you feel cold air. Some refrigerators have a freezer part at the top or bottom that makes ice and keeps things frozen hard.
Refugee\n\nA refugee is a person who had to leave their home country. They ran away because it was not safe there. Sometimes there is a big fight or war. Other times there is no food or a big storm breaks houses. They go to a new country to be safe. A refugee may live in a tent with other families while they wait for a new home. Many children are refugees too. They bring only a few things, like a toy or a blanket. People in the new country try to help them feel welcome.
Reggae\n\nReggae is a kind of music that makes you want to sway. It comes from a warm island called Jamaica. It has a bouncy beat where the guitar goes chop-chop and the drum goes boom on the second and fourth counts. People play it with drums, a guitar, a piano, and shiny horns like a trumpet. Many songs talk about love, being kind, and helping others. A man named Bob Marley made it famous all over the world. You might hear it at a beach party or when people dance with big smiles.
Region\n\nA region is a part of the world. It is a piece of land or water that is not too big and not too small. You can find a region on a map. It can be a place where the weather is the same, like a hot desert or a cold, snowy place. Sometimes a region is a group of smaller places that are close together. People who live in the same region often share things like food or stories.
Reincarnation\n\nReincarnation is the idea that after a person dies, they are born again in a new body. It is like starting a new life as a baby. Many people in places like India and Africa believe this happens over and over. They think a part of you that does not die moves to a new body. Some little children say they remember a life before this one. This idea is very old and is part of some big religions.
Reindeer\n\nA reindeer is a big animal with soft brown fur. It has four long legs, big feet, and antlers on its head. Both boy and girl reindeer grow antlers. It lives in cold places where snow falls, like the far north. It walks on soft ground and snow with its wide feet. It eats grass and soft plants. In winter, it digs under snow to find food. Some people keep it to help pull sleds. You might see it in a story about Santa Claus.
Relativity\n\nRelativity is a big idea about space and time. It says that time can move slower or faster depending on how fast you go. It also says that heavy things like stars can bend space around them. This idea helps us understand how the world works, like why we stay on the ground and why light bends. A scientist named Einstein thought of it a long time ago.
Relax\n\nRelax means to let your body feel soft and calm. It is what you do when you stop running and sit down quietly. You can relax by taking slow, deep breaths. It helps your muscles feel loose and not tight. After a busy day, you might relax on the couch with a blanket. When you relax, your mind feels happy and peaceful.
Relay\n\nA relay is a small switch that turns things on and off. It has a coil of wire and a metal arm inside. You find it inside many machines like cars, fridges, and toys. It lets a tiny electric push move a bigger switch safely. For example, when you turn the key in a car, a relay helps start the engine.
Relic\n\nA relic is a very old thing that people keep because it is special. It can be a small piece of a person or something that person used a long time ago. People put it in a pretty box or a special room to keep it safe. They visit it to feel close to someone they love or to remember a story. Some relics are from long-ago teachers like Buddha or Jesus. A relic is not a toy; people look at it quietly and think happy thoughts.
Religion\n\nReligion is a set of ideas that many people share. It tells stories about how the world began and what happens after we die. Many people pray or sing together in a special building like a church or a temple. Some people wear a small sign, like a cross or a star, to show what they believe. A child might see a family pray before a meal or light a candle on a special day.
Religion of ancient Egypt\n\nThe religion of ancient Egypt is what people in Egypt believed long, long ago. They thought many gods and goddesses lived in the sky, on the ground, and in the water. These gods looked like people, animals, or both. People built big stone houses called temples for the gods. They gave food and gifts to the gods there. They also made the bodies of dead people into mummies. They wrapped the body in cloth so it would not break. They put the mummy in a box and gave it food for a long trip after death. They believed a person's heart was weighed to see if they were good. If the heart was light, the person went to a happy place. If the heart was heavy, a monster ate it. Some gods were Ra the sun god, Osiris the king of the dead, and Isis his wife. You can see pictures of these gods in books about old Egypt.
Religious\n\nReligious means believing in a god or many gods. It is about special stories, songs, and ways to be kind. People who are religious may go to a quiet building to pray, like a church or a temple. They often have a special book they read. Some families light candles or say thanks before eating. It helps people feel close to something bigger than us.
Rembrandt\n\nRembrandt was a man who painted pictures a long time ago. He lived in a country far away. He used dark colors and bright light in his paintings. Many of his pictures show people's faces. You can see his paintings in big buildings called museums. Some people say he was one of the best painters ever.
Remember\n\nRemember means to keep something in your mind. It is like a picture or a feeling that stays with you. When you remember, you can think of a fun day at the park or a song you heard. It helps you know your friends' names and where you put your toys. Sometimes a smell or a sound makes you remember something from a long time ago.
Remind\n\nRemind means to help someone remember something. When you forget to bring your lunchbox, your friend might remind you. A teacher can remind the class to be quiet. A sticky note on the fridge can remind your family to buy milk. It is like a little helper for your brain.
Remora\n\nA remora is a small fish that rides on sharks. It has a flat, round sucker on top of its head. It uses this sucker to stick to the shark's body. It lives in the big, blue ocean. It eats tiny bits of food the shark drops. It also eats little bugs on the shark's skin. The shark does not mind, and the remora gets a free ride and a meal.
Remote\n\nA remote is a small thing you hold in your hand. It has buttons on it. You use it to tell a TV or a toy what to do from far away. When you press a button, it sends a hidden light or sound to the thing, and the thing moves or changes. You might see one on the couch at home.
Remote control\n\nA remote control is a small thing you hold in your hand. It has many buttons on top. You use it to turn on the TV or change the show from far away. It sends a hidden light or wave to the TV, and the TV listens. It needs little batteries inside to work. When you press a button, something happens on the screen.
Remove\n\nRemove means to take something away. When you take a toy off the table, you remove it. You can remove a sticker from your shirt by peeling it off. If you clean your room, you remove the mess. It is the opposite of put or add.
Renaissance\n\nThe Renaissance was a special time long ago when people made beautiful art and learned many new things. It started in a country called Italy and then spread to other places. During this time, artists painted pretty pictures, and builders made big, strong buildings. People also read old books from long ago to learn new ideas. A famous man from this time was Leonardo da Vinci. He could paint, make music, and think of clever machines.
Renaissance art\n\nRenaissance art is a kind of painting and making that people did a long time ago. It started around the year 1400 in a place called Italy. Many of these pictures show people with soft, quiet faces. One very famous painting is of a woman with a little smile. You can see these old pictures in big buildings called museums. They are very old but still very pretty to look at.
Renaissance music\n\nRenaissance music is old music from Europe. It was made a long time ago, from about the year 1400 to 1600. It sounds smooth and gentle, with many voices singing different tunes at the same time. People sang it in big churches and in the homes of kings and queens. Some songs were about love, and people played a soft stringed instrument called a lute along with the singing. Later, people learned how to print music on paper, so more people could have the songs.
Renewable\n\nRenewable means something that can be made again and again. It does not run out. Sunlight is renewable because the sun shines every day. Wind is renewable because the wind keeps blowing. Water in rivers is renewable because rain fills them back up. People use these things to make power for lights and cars.
Renewable energy\n\nRenewable energy is power that comes from things that never run out. It uses the sun, the wind, and water to make electricity. You can see big windmills in fields that spin to make power. Solar panels on roofs catch sunlight and turn it into energy for lights and TVs. Some cars even run on fuel made from plants. This kind of energy is good because it keeps the air clean.
Renminbi\n\nRenminbi is the money people use in China. It is made of paper and round coins. The paper comes in different sizes and colors, and the coins are small and shiny. You can use it to buy food, toys, and clothes in stores. One piece of it is called a yuan. People keep it in a wallet or a piggy bank.
Rent\n\nRent is money you pay to use something that belongs to someone else. It is often paid every month. People pay rent to live in a house or an apartment. You can also rent a car, a bike, or a movie. When you pay rent, you can use the thing for a while, but you do not own it.
Repeat\n\nRepeat means to do something again. When you say a word two times, you repeat it. In a song, the same part can come back again and again. That is a repeat. You can repeat a jump, a clap, or a dance move. It helps you learn and remember.
Report\n\nA report is a way to tell someone what you saw or learned. It can be a few words on paper or a story you say out loud. A teacher may ask you to make a report about a book you read. You can draw a picture and write a sentence to show what you found out. A report helps other people know things without seeing them for themselves.
Reproduction\n\nReproduction is how living things make new babies. It is how a mommy and a daddy animal make a little one that looks like them. Some tiny living things, like germs, can make a new one all by themselves by splitting in two. Big animals like cats, dogs, and people need a mommy and a daddy together to make a baby. Plants also make new plants, like when a seed grows into a big flower. Reproduction keeps life going on and on.
Reptile\n\nA reptile is an animal with dry, scaly skin. It has a long body and four short legs, or sometimes no legs at all. You can find it in warm places like deserts, forests, or near water. It moves by crawling or slithering on the ground. A turtle is one kind of reptile that carries a hard shell on its back. A snake is another kind that has no legs and slides on its belly.
Republic\n\nA republic is a way a country is run. It has no king or queen. The people pick a leader by voting. The leader is often called a president. The United States is a republic. In a republic, the rules are made by people the citizens choose.
Republic of Ireland\n\nThe Republic of Ireland is a country in Europe. It is on a big island, and it shares the island with another part called Northern Ireland. Its flag has green, white, and orange stripes. The capital city is Dublin, where many people live and work. People there speak English, and some also speak Irish. It has green fields, farms, and not many forests. Long ago, it was part of the United Kingdom, but now it is its own country. It uses a kind of money called the euro.
Republic of the Congo\n\nThe Republic of the Congo is a country in Africa. It sits near the middle of the world, where it is very warm. Much of the land has big, thick forests with tall trees. In other parts, people grow food like bananas and peanuts. The biggest city is Brazzaville, and it sits next to a wide river. Many people live in small towns and villages.
Research\n\nResearch is a way to find out new things. It is like being a detective who looks for answers. A person who does research asks questions and then looks very carefully to learn the answer. They might read books, watch things happen, or try small tests. Some people do research to help sick people feel better. Others do it to make new toys or to learn about stars and animals. When they finish, they write down what they found so other people can learn it too.
Reservoir\n\nA reservoir is a big lake made by people. It holds water so we can use it later. You might see one near a town or in the countryside. People use the water from it for drinking, washing, and making power. Sometimes it looks like a giant swimming pool, but it is for water we need every day.
Respect\n\nRespect is a kind and caring way you treat people. It means you listen when someone talks and you do not hurt their feelings. You show it by saying please and thank you. You also show it when you wait for your turn and share your toys. When you are nice to your friend even if you are mad, that is respect. It helps everyone feel safe and happy.
Respiration\n\nRespiration is how living things get energy from food. It happens inside tiny parts of the body called cells. All plants and animals do it to stay alive. Sometimes it uses air we breathe in, and sometimes it does not. When it uses air, it makes a lot of energy. When it does not use air, it makes less energy and a sour thing called lactic acid. You breathe in and out because your body is doing respiration right now.
Respiratory system\n\nThe respiratory system is how your body breathes. It brings in air and lets out used air. You have two lungs inside your chest. When you breathe in, air goes through your nose or mouth, down a tube, and into your lungs. Inside the lungs, the air goes into tiny little bags. There, the good part of the air goes into your blood. The used air comes back out when you breathe out. This gives your body the air it needs to run and play.
Resplendent quetzal\n\nA resplendent quetzal is a bright, pretty bird. It has green feathers on its body and a red belly. Its tail is very long and blue-green. It lives in the forests of Central America. People in Guatemala love this bird so much that they put its picture on their flag and money.
Rest\n\nRest is when you stop moving and let your body feel quiet. It can look like lying on a bed, sitting in a soft chair, or closing your eyes. You find rest at home, in a cozy spot, or anywhere you feel safe. It helps your body get strong again after playing or working. A nap is a kind of rest that many children take in the afternoon.
Restaurant\n\nA restaurant is a place where you can buy food and eat it there. It has tables and chairs for people to sit. Some restaurants are big, and some are small. You can find them in many towns and cities. At a restaurant, a person called a waiter brings food to your table. Some restaurants have a window where you can get food without leaving your car. That is called a drive-through. Many restaurants serve food like burgers, pizza, or noodles. A long time ago, people in old cities also had small places to eat and drink with friends.
Result\n\nA result is what happens at the end of something. It is the answer you get after you try. When you mix red and yellow paint, the result is orange. If you build a tall block tower and it falls, the result is a mess on the floor. A race has a result too—the person who runs fastest wins.
Retail\n\nRetail is when a store sells things to people who will use them. It is not selling to other stores. A store buys many things from a big maker, then sells one or two to you. You see retail at a shop, a mall, or a market stand. You can also buy things by mail, phone, or on a computer, and a truck brings it to your door. When you buy shoes to wear or food to eat, that is retail.
Retirement\n\nRetirement is when a grown-up stops going to work. It happens after many years of working, when they are older. Some people stop because they want to rest, and some stop because their body feels tired. They stay home more and can do fun things like play with grandkids or go for walks. Sometimes they move to a special house where helpers take care of them. The word can also mean an old car or bus that is not used anymore.
Return\n\nReturn means to go back to a place or to give something back. When you come home after school, you return to your house. If you borrow a toy from a friend, you return it when you are done playing. A return can also be a ticket that lets you go somewhere and come back, like a bus return ticket.
Revenge\n\nRevenge is a strong feeling of wanting to hurt someone back. It happens when a person thinks another person hurt them first. It feels like a hot, angry push inside the chest. Some people shout or hit when they feel it. But revenge often makes the hurt bigger, not smaller. It can turn into a long fight where both people keep hurting each other. A better way is to talk about the hurt or ask a grown-up for help.
Revolution\n\nA revolution is a big, fast change in how people live or who is in charge. It happens when many people are very unhappy and want things to be different. Sometimes it is loud and has fighting, but sometimes it is quiet and peaceful. A long time ago in France, people had a revolution to change their king and rules. In other places, people used a revolution to start a new way of running their country. It is like when a whole group of friends suddenly changes the game they are playing.
Rex\n\nRex is a name for a boy or a pet dog. It is a short, strong name that is easy to say. Many people name their big, friendly dog Rex. You might meet a dog named Rex at the park or in a storybook. A boy named Rex could be your friend at school.
Rhea (bird)\n\nA rhea is a big bird that cannot fly. It has long legs, a long neck, and soft gray or brown feathers. It lives in South America, in open fields and woods. It runs very fast to stay safe. It eats plants, fruits, seeds, and sometimes bugs. A group of rheas stays together, with one boy bird taking care of the eggs and babies.
Rhine River\n\nThe Rhine River is a long, winding river in Europe. It starts in a lake in Switzerland and flows through many countries like Germany and the Netherlands. Big boats carry things on it, and people grow grapes near it to make wine. The water is home to many fish. Long ago, old castles were built next to it. Today, people work to keep the water clean so fish can live there.
Rhinoceros\n\nA rhinoceros is a big, strong animal with thick skin. It has a large horn on its nose. It lives in parts of Africa and Asia, in places with grass and trees. It eats plants, like grass and branches. It is very heavy and can be taller than a grown-up. Some people hurt it to take its horn, so it needs to be kept safe.
Rhododendron\n\nA rhododendron is a bush with many bright flowers. It has big leaves that stay green all year or fall off in winter. You can find it in gardens, parks, and in the woods. People plant it because the flowers are very pretty. The flowers can be pink, red, purple, or white. Some people call a smaller kind an azalea. It grows in many places around the world.
Rhyme\n\nRhyme is when two words end with the same sound. It makes a little song or poem feel bouncy and fun. You can hear it in nursery rhymes like "Humpty Dumpty" or "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star." When words like "cat" and "hat" sound alike at the end, that is a rhyme. It helps you remember the words more easily. Many children's books use rhyme to make the story playful.
Rhythm\n\nRhythm is a pattern of sounds and quiet times in music. It is like a heartbeat that goes thump, thump, thump. You can feel it when you clap your hands or tap your foot to a song. Some beats are strong and some are soft. A drum often keeps the rhythm for a band. When you dance, your body moves to the rhythm. Even your heart has a rhythm that keeps you alive.
Rhythm and blues\n\nRhythm and blues is a kind of music that makes you want to move and sing. It has a strong beat and a smooth sound. People sing it with feeling, and it often tells a story. You can hear it on the radio, at a party, or when someone dances. Many singers use their voice to make the music sound happy, sad, or full of love.
Rib\n\nA rib is a long, curved bone in your chest. It is part of a set of bones that make a cage around your heart and lungs. You can feel your ribs when you touch the sides of your chest. They help keep your soft inside parts safe from bumps. When you breathe in, your ribs move up a little bit to let your lungs fill with air.
Ribbon\n\nA ribbon is a long, thin piece of cloth. It is soft and can be many colors like red, blue, or pink. You can find it in a craft box or on a pretty gift. People use it to tie a bow on a present or in a girl's hair. Sometimes you see it on a dress or a teddy bear. It makes things look nice and special.
Rice\n\nRice is a tiny white or brown grain that people eat. It is a kind of grass that grows in warm, wet places. You can find it in fields full of water. People cook it in hot water until it gets soft and fluffy. Many families eat it with meat, beans, or vegetables. It is a food that gives you energy to run and play.
Rich\n\nRich means having a lot of money. A rich person can buy many things, like a big house or a new car. They do not have to worry about paying for food or toys. Some people get rich by working hard at a job. Others get rich by making something that many people want to buy. Being rich can also mean having many friends and a happy family.
Rickshaw\n\nA rickshaw is a small cart with two wheels. It has a seat where one or two people can sit. A person pulls it by holding two long handles in front. You can see it in busy streets in some countries far away. It is used to carry people from one place to another, like a taxi. Some rickshaws are pulled by a bicycle instead of a person walking.
Rid\n\nTo rid means to make something go away. When you clean your room, you rid it of toys on the floor. If you have a bug in your cup, you pour out the water to rid the cup of the bug. It is like taking away something you do not want.
Riddle\n\nA riddle is a fun question that has a secret answer. It sounds like a little puzzle made of words. You hear it from a friend, a teacher, or in a book. When you think hard about the words, you can guess the answer. For example, 'I have a face but no eyes, hands but no arms. What am I?' The answer is a clock. People tell riddles to make each other laugh and think.
Ride\n\nA ride is when you sit on something that moves and takes you from one place to another. It can be on a car, a bus, a train, or a bike. Sometimes a ride is just for fun, like on a swing or a merry-go-round at the park. When you go to school in the morning, you take a ride in a car or a big yellow bus. A ride can be short, like going to the store, or long, like a trip to see Grandma.
Rifle\n\nA rifle is a long gun that people hold with both hands. It has a part that rests on the shoulder to help keep it steady. Inside the long tube, there are tiny twisty lines that make the bullet spin as it flies. This spin helps the bullet go far and straight. People use it for hunting animals in the woods. Soldiers and police also use it to keep people safe. Some people use it to hit paper targets for fun and practice.
Rigel\n\nRigel is a very big, bright star in the night sky. It looks like a tiny blue-white dot. You can see it in a group of stars called Orion. It is much bigger and hotter than our Sun. It shines so bright because it burns its fuel very fast. One day, it will run out of fuel and end with a big boom.
Right\n\nRight is a side of your body. It is the hand most people use to write and draw. When you look at a clock, the numbers go around to the right. You can find your right hand by making an L shape with your thumb and pointer finger. It is the hand that makes the L look the right way. Many things in the world are made for right-handed people, like scissors and desks.
Right angle\n\nA right angle is a corner that is perfectly straight, like the corner of a piece of paper. It looks like an L shape. You can find it in many places, like the corner of a book, a table, or a window. Builders use it to make walls stand straight up from the floor. When two lines make a right angle, they are called perpendicular.
Rights\n\nA right is something every person should have. It is a rule that says what you are allowed to do or keep. No one should take it away from you. For example, you have the right to be safe. You also have the right to play and learn. Grown-ups make laws to protect these rights. When everyone has their rights, the world is more fair.
Ring\n\nA ring is a small circle you wear on your finger. It is often made of shiny metal like gold or silver. Some rings have a pretty stone on top that sparkles in the light. People give rings as a gift to show love, like when two grown-ups get married. You might see a ring on your mom's hand or in a treasure box.
Rio de Janeiro\n\nRio de Janeiro is a big city in the country of Brazil. It sits next to the ocean, with tall green hills and sandy beaches. You can see a huge white statue of a man with open arms on top of a mountain. Many people visit to swim in the blue water and play in the sand. The city has busy streets with buses and cars, and a little train that goes up a hill. It once held the big sports games where people run and jump.
Rio Grande\n\nThe Rio Grande is a very long river. It starts high up in big hills called mountains. It runs through dry, hot land and then into a big sea. It is the line between two countries, the United States and Mexico. People use its water to drink and to help plants grow on farms.
Ripe\n\nRipe means a fruit is ready to eat. It looks full of color, like a yellow banana or a red strawberry. You find ripe fruit on a plant or at the store. When you touch it, it feels a little soft, not hard. It smells sweet and tastes the best. If you wait too long, it can get too soft and yucky.
Rise\n\nRise means to go up. When you stand up from sitting, you rise. The sun rises in the morning and goes up into the sky. When you blow up a balloon, it rises into the air. A bird rises from the ground when it starts to fly.
Risk\n\nRisk is the chance that something bad might happen. It is like when you climb a tree and you could fall. You think about it before you do something. If you cross the street without looking, there is a risk a car could hit you. People try to stay safe by thinking about risks first.
Ritual\n\nA ritual is a set of actions people do in a special way. It is like a little play where each move means something. You can see a ritual at a birthday party when everyone sings a song and the child blows out candles. Some rituals happen at big times in life, like when a boy or girl becomes a grown-up. People also do rituals at church or temple to show they belong to a group. Doing the same steps each time makes the ritual feel safe and important.
River\n\nA river is a long line of water that moves across the land. It starts high up in hills or mountains as a tiny stream. As it flows down, it gets bigger and wider. The water in a river is fresh, so people and animals can drink it. Many towns and farms sit next to a river. At the end, it flows into a big lake or the sea.
River delta\n\nA river delta is a piece of land shaped like a triangle. It is made where a river meets a big body of water, like the sea. The river brings tiny bits of mud and sand with it. When the water slows down, it drops these bits. Over a long time, the bits pile up and make new land. The land has many small streams running through it, like the fingers on your hand. Plants and animals can live on the dry parts. Some deltas are small, and some are very, very big.
Rivet\n\nA rivet is a small metal stick that holds two pieces of metal together. It looks like a short pin with a round head on one end. You can see it on old bridges, big ships, and some airplanes. Workers heat it until it is very hot, then push it through holes in the metal. When it cools, it gets tight and keeps the metal from moving apart. A long time ago, many people used rivets to build things, but now they often use other ways to join metal.
Riyadh\n\nRiyadh is a big city in a hot, sandy country. It is the capital of Saudi Arabia. The city has tall buildings, busy streets, and many cars. It is in the middle of a big desert, so it is very hot in summer and gets very little rain. Sometimes the wind blows dust and sand all over the city. Many people live and work there. The king and other leaders have their offices in Riyadh.
Road\n\nA road is a long, flat path on the ground. It connects two places so people can go from one to the other. It can be made of hard gray stuff, or just dirt and small stones. Cars, buses, and bikes drive on it every day. People walk on the side of it, called a sidewalk. You see a road outside your house or near the park.
Roar\n\nA roar is a very loud, deep sound. It comes from a big animal's mouth, like a lion or a bear. When you hear it, you might feel a rumble in your chest. A lion roars to say, "This is my home" or to talk to other lions far away. You can hear a roar at the zoo or in a movie about wild animals.
Rob\n\nRob is when someone takes a thing that is not theirs. It is not nice to rob. A person who robs takes money, toys, or food without asking. It can happen in a store or on a street. Police help stop rob and keep people safe. If you see a rob, tell a grown-up right away.
Robbery\n\nRobbery is when someone takes a thing that is not theirs. It happens when a person uses pushing or hitting to take it. The person who does this is called a robber. It is not the same as taking a thing quietly from a store or a pocket. Robbery is wrong and against the rules. Police help keep people safe from it.
Robe\n\nA robe is a soft, long piece of clothing you wear over your pajamas. It has two big sleeves and a belt to tie it closed. You find it at home, often hanging on a hook in the bathroom. People put it on after a bath or shower to stay warm and dry. It feels cozy, like a blanket you can wear.
Robin Hood\n\nRobin Hood is a person from old stories. He is a good man who helps poor people. He lives in a big forest with his friends. They wear green clothes and hide among the trees. Robin Hood is very good with a bow and arrow. He takes money from bad rich people and gives it back to those who have very little. Many children know him from books, cartoons, and movies.
Robot\n\nA robot is a machine that can move and do jobs. It can look like a person with arms and legs, or it can look like a big metal arm. You can find robots in factories, where they help build cars and lift heavy things. Some robots are in homes, like a small round one that cleans the floor all by itself. A robot follows a set of steps, like a recipe, to know what to do. It does not have feelings, even if it seems to smile. In movies and books, robots often talk and have adventures, but those are just stories.
Robotics\n\nRobotics is the work of making robots. It uses ideas from building, wires, and computer brains. People who do this work are called roboticians. They build robots that can go to hot or small places where people cannot go. Some robots look like people, but many just look like machines. You might see a robot toy that walks or talks. That is a simple kind of robot.
Rock\n\nA rock is a hard, solid piece of the ground. It can be big like a mountain or small like a pebble. You can find rocks outside in the dirt, in rivers, or at the beach. People use rocks to build houses and roads. Some rocks are smooth and round, and some are sharp and bumpy. A child might pick up a pretty rock and keep it in a pocket.
Rock (geology)\n\nA rock is a hard, solid piece of the Earth. It can be big like a mountain or small like a pebble. You can find rocks in many places, like a park, a beach, or a forest. Some rocks are smooth and some are bumpy. People use rocks to build houses and roads. A long time ago, people made tools from rocks.
Rock and roll\n\nRock and roll is a kind of music that makes you want to dance. It has a strong beat and loud sounds from guitars and drums. People started playing it a long time ago, in the 1950s. You can hear it on the radio, in movies, or at a party. Many famous singers like Elvis Presley and The Beatles made this music. It makes people feel happy and full of energy.
Rock art\n\nRock art is a picture or shape that people made on big stones long ago. It can be a painting with color or a carving scratched into the rock. You can find it on cave walls or on rocks outside. People made it to tell stories or show what they saw. Some rock art shows animals like deer or horses. It is very old and helps us learn about people who lived before us.
Rock climbing\n\nRock climbing is a sport where you use your hands and feet to go up a big rock or a wall. It is hard work and makes your arms and legs strong. People do it outside on real rocks or inside on a wall with little bumps to hold. They wear a special belt and use a rope to stay safe. You might see a climbing wall at a playground or a gym.
Rock dove\n\nA rock dove is a kind of bird. It has a light gray body and two black lines on each wing. Its neck shines with green and purple colors in the sun. Wild rock doves live on rocky cliffs far away, but you can see their cousins in cities. These city birds are called pigeons. They walk on streets and eat crumbs that people drop. Some people keep pigeons as pets or for racing. A long time ago, people used them to carry notes.
Rock music\n\nRock music is a kind of loud, fun music. It uses an electric guitar that plugs into a big box to make sound. A band plays it with a drum set, a bass guitar, and a singer. People dance and jump when they hear it. You can hear rock music on the radio or at a show with bright lights.
Rocket\n\nA rocket is a big, fast machine that flies up into the sky. It has a long, round body and a pointy top. It uses a hot fire at the bottom to push itself up. The fire makes hot air that shoots out and lifts it high. Some rockets carry people, and some carry things like satellites. A satellite is a small box that sends TV signals or takes pictures from space. You can see a rocket on TV when it blasts off from the ground. It goes very fast and leaves a trail of smoke behind it.
Rocket engine\n\nA rocket engine is a machine that pushes a rocket up into the sky. It works by shooting hot gas out of a hole at the bottom. The gas goes down fast, and that pushes the rocket up. Some rocket engines use liquid fuel, and some use solid fuel. A solid fuel engine is like a big firework stick. A liquid fuel engine has tanks and pipes that move the fuel. You can see a rocket engine on a space rocket when it blasts off.
Rocky\n\nRocky is a word that means something is full of rocks. It feels bumpy and hard when you touch it. You can find a rocky place outside, like a hill or a path with many stones. It is not smooth like a floor inside a house. When you walk on a rocky road, you have to step carefully so you do not trip.
Rocky Mountains\n\nThe Rocky Mountains are very tall hills that go up into the sky. They are so big that they stretch from one country to another, all the way from Canada down to the United States. The tops are often covered with white snow, even in summer. Many people visit them to hike, camp, and see animals like bears and deer. Some parts are a special park where you can drive on a road high up and look at the peaks all around.
Rodent\n\nA rodent is a small furry animal with sharp front teeth. It has four legs, a tail, and two big teeth on top and two on the bottom that never stop growing. You can find it in many places like fields, forests, and even inside houses. It chews on hard things like wood to keep its teeth short and sharp. A mouse is a tiny rodent you might see in your kitchen. A squirrel is a rodent that climbs trees and has a big bushy tail.
Rodeo\n\nA rodeo is a fun show with cowboys and cowgirls. It has many games that come from old ranch work. You can see people ride fast horses and try to stay on bucking bulls. They also use ropes to catch cows. People cheer and clap when someone does a good job. A rodeo often happens in a big open space with dirt on the ground.
Role\n\nA role is a part you play in a game or a story. It is like when you pretend to be a mom, a dad, or a doctor. In a play at school, you might have a role as a tree or a bunny. It tells you what to do and say. Everyone has a role in their family, like being a big sister or a little brother.
Role-playing game\n\nA role-playing game is a kind of make-believe game. In it, you pretend to be a different person, like a brave knight or a clever wizard. You can play it sitting around a table with friends, on a computer, or even by acting it out. One person, called the game master, tells the story and says what happens. The other players say what their made-up person does. When you try something hard, you often roll dice to see if it works. As you play, your made-up person gets stronger and learns new things.
Roll\n\nA roll is when something turns over and over. It can be a ball moving across the floor, or a log going down a hill. You can also roll play dough into a snake shape with your hands. Sometimes people do a forward roll on a soft mat, tucking their head and rolling like a ball. It is a fun way to move.
Roller skating\n\nRoller skating is moving around on shoes with wheels. It has four small wheels on the bottom, two in front and two in back. You can do it on a smooth floor or a special rink. People use it for fun, to race, or to dance with music. Some kids learn to skate at a birthday party.
Roma people\n\nRoma people are a group of people who came from India a long, long time ago. They traveled far and now live in many places around the world. They have their own way of talking, their own songs, and their own food. Music is very big for them—they play guitars and violins and dance in fun ways. Many Roma people live in parts of Europe, and they move from place to place in big homes on wheels called caravans. Some people have not been kind to them, but they keep their families and traditions strong.
Roman\n\nA Roman is a person from a very old city called Rome. It lived a long, long time ago. Romans wore long white clothes and built big stone houses. They told stories about gods and brave fighters. You can see pictures of Romans in storybooks about old times.
Roman art\n\nRoman art is art made by people who lived in Rome a long, long time ago. It can be a big stone building with tall round posts, a painting on a wall, or a statue of a person. You can see it in old places where Romans once lived, like broken houses or deep under the ground. Some of it is made of tiny colored stones put together to make a picture on the floor. It shows us how people dressed, what they did, and the stories they loved.
Roman Empire\n\nThe Roman Empire was a very big group of lands and people long ago. It had a strong army and a leader called an emperor. It built long roads, big stone bridges, and tall buildings that carried water. People in the empire spoke Latin and used coins to buy food and clothes. You can still see old Roman walls and roads in some places today.
Roman mythology\n\nRoman mythology is a big set of old stories from long ago. It tells about gods and goddesses who lived in the sky. They look like people but have magic powers. They can fly fast and turn into animals. People built pretty houses called temples for them. The stories are like the ones from Greece, but with Roman names.
Roman numerals\n\nRoman numerals are letters that stand for numbers. They were used a long, long time ago by people in Rome. You can still see them on some clocks, where I is 1, V is 5, and X is 10. To make other numbers, you put the letters together. If a smaller letter is before a bigger one, you take it away. For example, IV means 4 because I is 1 and V is 5, so 5 take away 1 is 4.
Romania\n\nRomania is a country in Europe. It is near the Black Sea and has big mountains called the Carpathian Mountains. Many people live there, and the biggest city is Bucharest. People in Romania speak Romanian. They eat foods like corn porridge and small sausages. The land has rivers, hills, and forests. Children go to school for many years. Romania has cold winters and warm summers.
Romantic music\n\nRomantic music is a kind of music from a long time ago. It was made in the 1800s. It often tells a story or paints a picture with sounds. You can hear it in movies or on the radio when the music feels big and full of feelings. Some of it sounds like a walk in the woods or a storm at sea.
Romanticism\n\nRomanticism is a way of making art, music, and stories. It started long ago in Europe. People who made Romantic art liked to show big feelings, like love or wonder. They also loved to paint and write about nature, like tall mountains and deep forests. It was a time when artists wanted to be free and use their own ideas. You can see Romantic art in old paintings with bright skies and wild places.
Rome\n\nRome is a big, old city in a country called Italy. It has many old stone buildings, big churches, and pretty water fountains. A long river named the Tiber runs through it. Long ago, Rome was the most important city in the world, with kings and big fights. Today, people from all over come to see its old places, like a huge round stone building called the Colosseum. The Pope lives in a small part of Rome called Vatican City.
Romeo and Juliet\n\nRomeo and Juliet is a story about two young people who love each other. It is a play that people act out on a stage. The story takes place in a city far away called Verona. Romeo is a boy and Juliet is a girl. Their families do not like each other, but Romeo and Juliet fall in love anyway. They get married in secret. Later, they both die because of a sad mix-up. The story ends with the families making peace. Many people watch this play in theaters or see it in movies.
Roof\n\nA roof is the top part of a house or building. It covers the whole place like a big hat. It keeps rain, snow, and hot sun away from the people inside. Some roofs are flat, and some are slanted so water slides off. You can see a roof on every house when you look up from the street.
Room\n\nA room is a space inside a building. It has walls all around, a floor, and a roof. A door lets you go in and out. You find rooms in houses, schools, and stores. Each room has a job. A bedroom is for sleeping. A kitchen is for cooking food. A bathroom has a toilet and a tub for washing. Long ago, people also had rooms like we do today.
Root\n\nA root is the part of a plant that grows under the ground. It looks like long, thin strings or a big, thick stick. You find it in the dirt, holding the plant so it does not fall over. It drinks water and food from the soil to help the plant grow. A carrot is a root that you can eat.
Rope\n\nA rope is a long, strong string. It is made by twisting many tiny threads together. You can find it in a garage, on a boat, or at a playground. People use it to pull heavy things or to tie something so it stays in one place. A rope on a swing lets you go up and down. Some ropes are thick and rough, and some are thin and smooth.
Rose\n\nA rose is a pretty flower that grows on a bush. It has soft, colorful petals that can be red, yellow, pink, white, or purple. Many roses smell very sweet. You can find roses in gardens, parks, and flower shops. People give roses to show love or to say sorry. The bush has sharp little spikes on its stems, so you must be careful when you touch it. After the flower falls off, a small round fruit called a hip grows in its place.
Rosetta Stone\n\nThe Rosetta Stone is a big, old rock with words cut into it. It has three kinds of writing on it: Greek, and two kinds of Egyptian writing. French soldiers found it in Egypt a long time ago. It helped people learn how to read the old Egyptian picture writing. Now it sits in a big museum in London for everyone to see.
Rosh Hashanah\n\nRosh Hashanah is a special Jewish holiday. It is the start of a new year on the Jewish calendar. People celebrate it for two days in the fall. They think about being kind and saying sorry for mistakes. Families eat sweet foods like apples with honey to wish for a sweet year. They also blow a ram's horn called a shofar. It makes a loud sound that wakes up the heart.
Ross Sea\n\nThe Ross Sea is a big, cold part of the ocean near the bottom of the world. It is covered with ice for much of the year. In summer, some of the ice melts and you can see dark blue water. Many animals live there, like penguins, seals, and whales. It is one of the cleanest seas on Earth because people do not go there very much.
Rotation\n\nRotation is when something turns around and around. It can turn around a point, like a spinning top. It can also turn around a line, like a wheel on a bike. You see rotation when a merry-go-round spins at the park. The Earth does a big rotation every day, which makes the sun look like it moves across the sky.
Rotterdam\n\nRotterdam is a big city in a country called the Netherlands. It has a very large port where many big boats come and go. The city sits next to a wide river. Many people live there, and they work in shops, offices, and at the port. A long time ago, it was just a small fishing town. Now it has tall buildings and a big red bridge that looks like a harp. Some parts of the city are lower than the sea, so big walls called dikes keep the water out.
Rough\n\nRough is how something feels when it is not smooth. It has bumps and little hills on it. You can find rough things outside, like tree bark or a rocky path. Sandpaper is rough, and people use it to make wood smooth. A cat's tongue feels rough when it licks your hand.
Round\n\nRound is a shape with no corners. It looks like a circle or a ball. You can find it in many things, like a wheel, a coin, or the sun. When something is round, it can roll easily on the ground. A plate, a button, and a full moon are all round.
Routine\n\nA routine is a set of things you do in the same order every day. It is like a plan for your day. When you wake up, you might brush your teeth, eat breakfast, and get dressed. That is a morning routine. At night, you might take a bath, put on pajamas, and read a story. That is a bedtime routine. It helps you know what comes next and makes you feel safe and calm.
Row\n\nA row is a line of things that sit next to each other. It can be a line of chairs, a line of people, or a line of toys. You see rows in a classroom where children sit at desks. In a garden, plants can grow in a row. When you put your blocks in a straight line, you make a row.
Rowing (sport)\n\nRowing is a sport where people race in long, skinny boats. It uses long sticks called oars to push the boat through the water. In one kind, each person holds one oar with both hands. In another kind, each person holds two oars, one in each hand. Some boats have just one person. Bigger boats hold eight people and a friend who steers. You can see rowing on rivers and lakes. People race to see who can go the fastest. It is a very old sport that started a long time ago in England.
Royal National Park\n\nRoyal National Park is a big, green place with trees, hills, and water. It is near a big city called Sydney in a country named Australia. It has tall trees with leaves that smell nice, and many colorful flowers. You can walk on paths and see birds, lizards, and maybe a kangaroo. Some parts have sandy beaches where you can play. Families go there to have a picnic and cook food outside. It is a good place to see nature and have fun.
Rub\n\nA rub is when you move your hand back and forth on something. It can feel warm and soft, like when you rub a blanket. You might rub your arm if it feels cold or sore. Sometimes people rub a dog's belly to make it happy. You can also rub a crayon on paper to make a picture.
Rubber\n\nRubber is a stretchy material. It can be soft or a little hard. You find it in many things at home and outside. It is used to make balls, boots, and the tires on cars and bikes. A rubber band is a small loop that can stretch and go back to its shape. When you erase a pencil mark, you use a small piece of rubber too.
Ruby\n\nA ruby is a pretty red stone. It is very hard and shiny. People find it deep under the ground. They cut it and make it smooth to put on rings and necklaces. It is often red, but sometimes it can be pink or other colors. Many people like it because it sparkles in the light.
Rug\n\nA rug is a soft, flat piece of cloth that covers part of a floor. It can be small like a bath mat or big like a carpet in a living room. You find it in many homes, where people put it on the floor to make the room feel warm and cozy. It helps keep your feet from touching the cold floor. A rug can have many colors and patterns, like stripes or flowers. You might have a rug next to your bed to step on when you wake up.
Rugby football\n\nRugby football is a game where two teams try to get points by carrying or kicking a ball. It is played on a big grass field with an H-shaped goal at each end. Players run with the ball, pass it to friends, and try to touch it down past the other team's line. The other team tries to stop them by grabbing and holding. You might see it on TV or at a park.
Rugby League\n\nRugby League is a game with a ball. It has two teams, and each team has 13 people. The ball is not round; it is long like an egg. The field is a big green rectangle. People run with the ball and try to put it down past a line to get points. That is called a try. After a try, someone can kick the ball high between two tall sticks to get more points. Many people play it in places like Australia and England. You might see it on TV when big teams play.
Rugby union\n\nRugby union is a game where two teams try to score points with an oval ball. It is played on a big grass field with two tall H-shaped posts at each end. Each team has 15 players who run, pass, and kick the ball. The ball can only be passed to the side or backward, never forward. Players try to carry the ball past the other team and touch it down behind the posts to get points. They also kick the ball through the tall posts to get more points. The team with the most points at the end wins.
Ruin\n\nA ruin is an old building that is broken. It has walls that are falling down and no roof on top. You can find it in a quiet field or an old part of a town. Long ago, people lived or worked there, but now no one uses it. Sometimes birds make nests in the cracks. A ruin can look like a castle with big stones all around.
Rule\n\nA rule is a way to tell people what they can or cannot do. It is like a simple list of things that are okay and things that are not okay. You find rules at home, at school, and on the playground. It helps everyone play fair and stay safe. For example, a rule at the dinner table is to wash your hands before you eat.
Rule of law\n\nRule of law means everyone must follow the same rules. It says no one is too big or too strong to be above the law. Even the people who make the rules have to follow them too. This keeps things fair and safe for all people. It stops one person from having all the power and hurting others. In places with rule of law, judges help make sure the rules are followed. It is like a game where everyone plays by the same rules, so no one cheats.
Ruler\n\nA ruler is a tool for measuring how long something is. It is a long, flat stick with numbers and little lines on it. You can find it in a classroom, at home, or in a desk. It helps you draw straight lines and see how many inches or centimeters something is. A child might use a ruler in art class to make a neat line.
Rumble\n\nA rumble is a low, deep sound that shakes a little. It is like the noise you hear when a big truck drives by or when thunder rolls far away. Sometimes your tummy makes a rumble when you are hungry. It can also be the sound of rocks moving deep under the ground. You can feel a rumble in your chest when it is very loud.
Rumi\n\nRumi was a man who lived a long time ago. He wrote many beautiful poems about love and being kind. People still read his words today all over the world. His poems feel like a warm hug for the heart.
Run\n\nTo run is to move your legs very fast. It is faster than walking. You can run in a park, on a street, or in a race. When you run, your heart beats faster and you breathe harder. It is a fun way to play with friends.
Runes\n\nRunes are very old letters that people used long ago. They look like straight lines and sharp marks carved into wood or stone. You can find them on big rocks called runestones in countries like Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. People used them to write stories and poems. Some runes are still used in stories about magic and old times.
Runner\n\nA runner is a person who moves fast on their feet. They wear light shoes and comfy clothes. You can see a runner in a park, on a track, or on a street. They run to stay strong, to play a game, or just for fun. Some runners race each other to see who is fastest. When you run to the door when your friend calls, you are a runner too.
Running\n\nRunning is moving your legs very fast to go from one place to another. It is like walking, but both feet leave the ground at the same time. You can run slow, which is called jogging, or run fast, which is called sprinting. People run to stay healthy and strong. It makes your heart beat faster and helps you breathe deep. Many kids run during playtime at school or in a race on sports day. After running, you feel hot and need a big drink of water.
Runny\n\nRunny means something is very soft and wet, like water. It can be food that is not thick, like soup or a soft egg yolk. Sometimes a nose gets runny when you have a cold, and clear liquid comes out. You can wipe it with a tissue. Paint can be runny if you add too much water.
Rural area\n\nA rural area is a place with lots of open land and not many buildings. It has farms, fields, trees, and animals like cows and sheep. You can find it far from big cities where the roads are quiet. People grow food there and take care of the land. Some families live in small houses with big yards. It is a nice place to see stars at night because there are not many bright lights.
Russia\n\nRussia is a very big country. It has land in both Europe and Asia. It is the biggest country in the whole world. The capital city is Moscow. Many people live there. The weather can be very cold, with lots of snow in winter. Some parts have big forests and wide rivers. The flag has three stripes: white, blue, and red. People in Russia speak Russian. They eat bread, soup, and pancakes. A famous toy from Russia is a wooden doll that opens up, with smaller dolls inside.
Russian\n\nRussian is a language that many people speak. It uses letters that look different from English letters, with shapes like funny sticks and circles. You can hear it in a big country called Russia, and in other places nearby. People use it to talk to friends, sing songs, and read stories. If you meet someone who says "Privet," that means "Hello" in Russian.
Russian language\n\nRussian is a language that many people speak. It is the main language in Russia, a very big country. It uses special letters that look different from the ones we use in English. Some of its letters are round and some have funny shapes. People also speak it in other places near Russia. At the United Nations, where many countries talk together, Russian is one of the important languages they use.
Russian literature\n\nRussian literature is stories and poems written by people from Russia. It is made of words in the Russian language. Many people around the world read these stories in their own language too. Some stories are about families, some are about big feelings, and some are about long trips. A famous story is about a girl named Anna. Another story is about a man who thinks a lot about right and wrong. You can find these books in a library or a bookstore.
Rust\n\nRust is a red-brown flaky coat that grows on iron. It forms when iron gets wet and sits in the air for a long time. You can find it on old cars, gates, or tools left outside. It makes the metal weak and crumbly. If you touch it, it feels rough and may leave orange dust on your fingers.
Rusty\n\nRusty means something has rust on it. Rust is a red-brown coat that forms on metal when it gets wet for a long time. You might see a rusty old bike left outside in the rain. It can look bumpy and flaky. If you touch it, the red-brown color might come off on your hand. People try to keep things dry so they do not get rusty.
Rutabaga\n\nA rutabaga is a round vegetable that grows under the ground. It has a rough skin that is often covered with a thin wax. The inside is yellow, not white like a turnip. People cook it and eat it in soups or mash it like potatoes. It grows best when the weather is cool. You might see it at a farm stand or in a big store near the potatoes and carrots.
Rwanda\n\nRwanda is a country in Africa. It has no ocean next to it, so it is all land. It is called the Land of a Thousand Hills because it has many hills and mountains. The biggest city is Kigali. Many people live there. In the mountains, you can find big, gentle animals called gorillas. The country has two rainy times each year, and the rest of the year is dry. People grow food on the hillsides.
Rye\n\nRye is a tall green plant that grows in fields. It looks a lot like wheat and barley. Farmers plant it to make food for cows and horses. People also use it to make dark, heavy bread. Some grown-ups make a strong drink from it called whiskey. You can find rye bread in a store or at a bakery.
Sabbath\n\nA sabbath is a special day for rest and quiet. It happens once every week. On this day, people stop working and spend time with family or say prayers. Some people go to a church or a temple on this day. It is a day to feel calm and happy.
Sad\n\nSad is a feeling you get when something makes you unhappy. It can feel like a heavy weight inside your chest. You might cry, or your face might look droopy. It can happen when you lose a toy, when a friend moves away, or when someone says something mean. It is okay to feel sad sometimes. A hug from someone you love can help it feel smaller.
Saddle\n\nA saddle is a seat you put on a horse to ride it. It is made of strong leather and has a soft part to sit on. Under the horse's belly, a strap holds it tight so it does not slip. People use it when they ride a horse for fun, for work, or in a race. You can see one at a farm or in a cowboy movie.
Sadness\n\nSadness is a feeling you get when something hurts your heart. It is the opposite of feeling happy. You might feel it when you lose a toy, when a friend moves away, or when someone you love is not near. When you are sad, your face may look droopy, and tears may come from your eyes. It is okay to feel sad sometimes. A hug from someone you love can help it feel smaller.
Safe\n\nA safe is a strong box with a lock. It is made of hard metal and has a heavy door. People keep money, jewelry, and important papers inside it. You might see a safe in a bank or at home in a closet. Only a person with the key or secret code can open it.
Safely\n\nSafely means doing something in a way that keeps you from getting hurt. It is like holding a grown-up's hand when you cross the street. You also act safely when you wear a helmet on a bike. It means looking both ways before you go, and not touching hot things. When you play safely, you have fun without any owies.
Safety\n\nSafety is a feeling that nothing bad will happen. It means you are not in danger. A safety hat keeps your head safe when you ride a bike. A house gives safety from rain and cold wind. Police officers help keep people safe on the street. When you hold a grown-up's hand near cars, that is a safety measure too.
Saffron\n\nSaffron is a spice that comes from a flower. It is made from tiny red threads inside the flower. It has a strong smell and a bitter taste. People use it in cooking to give food a yellow color and a special flavor. It is very expensive because picking the threads takes a lot of time. You might see it in rice dishes that look bright yellow.
Saga\n\nA saga is a very old story from long ago. It tells about brave people who lived in cold lands near the sea. These people sailed on big wooden boats and had fights with swords. You can find sagas in old books from places like Iceland. People read them to learn about the old days. One famous saga is about a man named Njal.
Sahara\n\nThe Sahara is a very big, hot desert in Africa. It is made of sand, rocks, and some tall hills. It is so big that it is almost as big as the whole United States. The sun shines very strong there, and it almost never rains. In the day, it can get hotter than a very hot bath. At night, it can get cold. Not many people live there, but some live near water spots called oases. You can find camels, snakes, and small foxes in the Sahara. It is the biggest hot desert on Earth.
Sail\n\nA sail is a big piece of strong cloth on a boat. It catches the wind and makes the boat move over the water. The sail is held up by a tall stick called a mast. Some boats have one sail, and some have many. A boat with a sail is called a sailing boat. Long ago, people used sailing boats to go far across the sea. Today, people use them for fun and for races. You might see a sail on a lake or at the beach on a sunny day.
Sailing\n\nSailing is moving a boat using the wind. It has a big cloth called a sail that catches the wind and pushes the boat forward. You can find sailing boats on lakes, rivers, and the big blue sea. People use it for fun, for racing, or to go on trips. Some kids learn to sail in a small boat at summer camp. It is also a sport in the Olympic Games.
Sailing (sport)\n\nSailing is a sport where boats race on water. It uses the wind to push the boat forward. The boats can be very small, like a little toy boat but big enough for one or two people, or very big with many people on board. They race around floating balls called buoys that mark the path. The boat that finishes first wins. Sometimes many boats race together, and sometimes just two boats race against each other. You can see sailing races on a lake or the sea near the shore. Some races last for many days and go far across the ocean.
Sailing ship\n\nA sailing ship is a big boat that moves on water. It has tall poles called masts, and big cloths called sails that catch the wind. The wind pushes it across the sea. Long ago, people used it to carry food and things to faraway places. It was also used in big fights on the water. Today, you can see small ones at the beach or in a park lake. People ride them for fun on a sunny day.
Saint\n\nA saint is a very good and holy person. In many religions, people call someone a saint when they live in a kind and loving way. Some saints are in heaven, and some are still on earth. Many people think of saints as helpers who can pray for us. You might see a picture or a statue of a saint in a church, with a soft light around their head.
Saint George\n\nSaint George is a brave man from a very old story. He is often shown as a soldier on a horse. In the story, he fights a big, scary dragon that breathes fire. The dragon lives near a lake and scares a whole town. Saint George uses a long spear to hurt the dragon. Then he ties a belt around its neck and leads it like a pet. He tells the people not to be afraid. He says he will stop the dragon if they learn to be kind and good. The people agree, and Saint George stops the dragon with his sword. Today, some people remember him on a special day. They might wear a red flower or wave a flag with a red cross on white.
Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nSaint Kitts and Nevis is a small country made of two islands in the warm blue sea. It has green hills, tall mountains, and many palm trees. People live in small towns near the water. They grow sweet sugar and play a game called cricket on big grassy fields. You can see it on a map near other sunny islands.
Saint Lawrence River\n\nThe Saint Lawrence River is a very long, wide path of water. It starts from big lakes called the Great Lakes and flows all the way to the big ocean. It goes through Canada and touches the top of New York. Big boats use it to carry things from one place to another. You can see it in the city of Montreal, where bridges cross over it. The water is deep and blue, and it moves slowly toward the sea.
Saint Lucia\n\nSaint Lucia is a small island country with warm weather. It sits in the big blue sea near other islands. The land has tall green hills and two pointy mountains called the Pitons. People can swim at sandy beaches and see clear water. Many visitors come to enjoy the sun and play in the sea. It is a happy place with music and colorful houses.
Saint Nicholas\n\nSaint Nicholas was a kind man who lived a long, long time ago. He was a bishop, which is a helper in a church. He had a soft heart and gave his money to people who had none. He also helped children and people who sailed on big boats. Today, many people think of him when they hear about Santa Claus, the happy man in a red suit who brings gifts. You can see pictures of him in some churches, standing with a kind face and a long beard.
Saint Peter\n\nSaint Peter was a friend of Jesus long ago. He was a fisherman who caught fish in a big lake. Jesus asked him to help tell people about God. He became a leader for the first group of people who followed Jesus. Later, he went to a big city called Rome. There, he died on a wooden cross. Many people still remember him as a very important person in the church.
Saint Petersburg\n\nSaint Petersburg is a big city in Russia. It sits near the sea and has many rivers and canals, so people call it the Venice of the North. Over five million people live there, and it is the second biggest city in the country. Long ago, a king named Peter started the city to be the capital. It has beautiful old buildings like the Winter Palace, where you can see art and gold rooms. Today, many people visit to walk by the water and look at the pretty bridges.
Salad\n\nA salad is a bowl of cold, fresh food. It has green leaves like lettuce or spinach. People cut up other vegetables like tomatoes, carrots, and cucumbers and mix them in. Sometimes they add cheese, eggs, or little crunchy bits on top. A sauce called dressing makes it taste even better. You can eat a salad before a big meal or all by itself for lunch.
Salamander\n\nA salamander is a small animal that looks like a lizard. It has four short legs, a long tail, and smooth, wet skin. It lives in water when it is a baby and on land when it grows up. You can find it near ponds, streams, or in wet, shady woods. It eats bugs and worms by catching them with its sticky tongue. If a bigger animal tries to eat it, it can drop its tail and grow a new one later. Some salamanders have bright spots to warn that they taste bad.
Sale\n\nA sale is when you can buy something for less money than before. It happens in a store or on a computer. The price tag shows a smaller number, so you pay less. People like sales because they can get more things with the same money. Sometimes a sale is for just one day, like a big holiday. You might see a red sign that says SALE in a shop window.
Sales\n\nSales is when people give something to someone else and get money back. It happens in a store, at a market, or even on a computer. A person who does sales is called a salesperson. They show things like toys, food, or clothes and help people decide what to buy. When you go to the store with Mom and Dad and they pay for food, that is sales. Sometimes a salesperson talks to people on the phone or writes messages to tell them about good things to buy. Sales helps people get what they need and helps stores keep running.
Sales tax\n\nSales tax is a little extra money you pay when you buy something. It is added to the price at the store. The money goes to the town or city to help pay for things like roads, schools, and parks. Not everything has sales tax. Food from the grocery store often does not have it. When you buy a toy, the price tag might say 5 dollars, but you pay a bit more because of sales tax.
Salmon\n\nA salmon is a kind of fish. It has shiny silver skin and a soft pink inside. It lives in the sea but swims up rivers to lay eggs. Many people eat it for food, and you can find it at the store or on a plate. It is often pink on the inside, which makes it look pretty when you eat it.
Salsa music\n\nSalsa music is a fun kind of music from Latin America. It has a happy beat that makes you want to dance. You can hear it at parties, on the radio, or when people dance together. It uses drums, trumpets, and singers who sing in Spanish. Many people love to move their feet and hips when they hear it.
Salt\n\nSalt is a tiny white thing we put on food. It looks like small, shiny grains. You can find it in a shaker on the table at home. It makes food taste better, like on fries or eggs. People also use it to keep food from going bad for a long time.
Salty\n\nSalty is a taste you feel on your tongue. It is like the taste of salt from the sea. You find it in snacks like chips, crackers, and pretzels. It makes food taste strong and yummy. Too much of it can make you thirsty.
Sam\n\nSam is a name for a person. It can be a name for a boy or a girl. You might know a Sam at school or in your neighborhood. Some Sams have short hair, and some have long hair. A Sam can be a friend who likes to play games, draw pictures, or read books. If you meet a Sam, you can say hello and ask to play.
Samba\n\nSamba is a happy dance and music from Brazil. It has fast feet and a bouncy body. You can see it at big street parties with bright colors and feathers. People move to the beat of drums and bells. Sometimes they dance with a partner, and sometimes they dance all alone. The music makes you want to clap and shake your hips.
Same\n\nSame means two things are just alike. It is when you have two red apples and they look the same. You can find same things everywhere, like two socks that match. When things are the same, you can put them together. For example, your friend has the same toy as you.
Samoa\n\nSamoa is a country made of islands in the big blue ocean. It has two main islands and some tiny ones. The islands are warm and have green trees and sandy beaches. Many people there speak Samoan and English. They like to play a game called rugby. The capital city is Apia, where many people live.
Samurai\n\nA samurai is a warrior from old Japan. He wears special clothes and a hard hat called a helmet. He carries a long, sharp sword that is very important to him. A samurai fights to keep his town safe and follows strong rules about being brave and good. You might see him in a picture book or a movie with big castles and cherry trees.
San Antonio\n\nSan Antonio is a big city in Texas. It has a river that runs through the middle, with shops and places to eat next to the water. Many people live there, and it is known for an old fort called The Alamo. You can also see a basketball team called the Spurs play there. Some families go to big parks with rides, like SeaWorld and Six Flags.
San Diego\n\nSan Diego is a big city by the ocean in California. It has many beaches where you can play in the sand and water. The weather is warm and sunny most of the year. There is a famous zoo with lots of animals to see. People also like to visit big parks and watch baseball games there. It is a place where many families live and have fun.
San Francisco\n\nSan Francisco is a big city by the water in California. It has many steep hills and a famous red bridge called the Golden Gate Bridge. You can see the ocean on one side and a big bay on the other side. Many people live there and ride cable cars up and down the hills. It is a place where people from all over the world come to live and work.
San Marino\n\nSan Marino is a very small country in Europe. It is so small that it is one of the tiniest countries in the whole world. It sits on a big hill with rocky ground, and the top of the hill is called Monte Titano. All around it is the country of Italy, so it is like a little island of land inside Italy. People there speak Italian and eat food that is a lot like Italian food. They have a special cake called Torta Tre Monti, which is made of thin layers with chocolate. Many people visit San Marino to see the old buildings and buy pretty stamps.
San Salvador\n\nSan Salvador is a big city in a country called El Salvador. It has many tall buildings, busy streets, and lots of people. It sits in a place with big hills and mountains that can sometimes shake. The city has a big church and many smaller ones where people go to pray. Important leaders work there to make rules for the country. Sometimes people have big sports games and fun shows in the city.
Sand\n\nSand is tiny, tiny bits of rock. It feels rough and gritty when you touch it. You find it at the beach, in a sandbox, or in the desert. It can be many colors, like tan, white, or even black. People use it to build sandcastles at the shore. It is also mixed with other things to make hard paths and buildings.
Sandal\n\nA sandal is a kind of shoe. It has a flat bottom and straps that go over the foot. You can see toes when someone wears it. People wear it in warm weather to keep feet cool. You might see it at the beach or in summer.
Sandbox\n\nA sandbox is a box filled with soft sand. It is usually made of wood or plastic and sits on the ground. You can find it in a park, a playground, or a backyard. Children play in it with shovels, buckets, and toy trucks. They dig holes, build castles, and make shapes in the sand. It is a fun place to play outside on a sunny day.
Sandcastle\n\nA sandcastle is a small pretend castle made from wet sand. It has walls, towers, and sometimes a little gate. You find it at the beach near the water. People use buckets and shovels to build it. It is fun to make, but the waves can wash it away.
Sandcastles\n\nA sandcastle is a little house made of wet sand. It has walls, towers, and sometimes a moat. You find it at the beach where the sand is damp. People build it with buckets and shovels for fun. The waves can wash it away when the water comes up.
Sandpiper\n\nA sandpiper is a small bird that lives near the water. It has a round body, long legs, and a thin, pointy beak. You can see it at the beach or by a muddy shore. It uses its beak to poke into wet sand and mud to find tiny bugs to eat. It runs fast on the sand and sometimes flies low over the water. Its feathers are brown and gray, which helps it hide on the ground.
Sandstone\n\nSandstone is a kind of rock made from tiny bits of sand. It feels rough and can be red, brown, or yellow. You can find it in big cliffs, by rivers, or in the desert. People use it to build walls and paths because it is strong. A long time ago, sand piled up and got pressed together to make this rock.
Sandwich\n\nA sandwich is food made with two pieces of bread. It has yummy things like meat, cheese, or lettuce in the middle. You can hold it with one hand and eat it without a fork or spoon. Many kids take a sandwich to school in a lunchbox. Some sandwiches are hot and some are cold. A sandwich is easy to make and good for a quick meal.
Sandy\n\nSandy is a word that tells about how something feels. It feels like tiny bits of rock, like what you find at the beach or in a sandbox. If you touch something sandy, it feels rough and grainy. You can find sandy places near the ocean or at a playground. After you play in the sand, your hands and feet feel sandy.
Sanitary sewer\n\nA sanitary sewer is a big pipe under the ground. It carries dirty water from homes and buildings to a cleaning place. The dirty water has things like soap, food bits, and waste. At the cleaning place, the water gets clean again so it does not hurt rivers or lakes. This helps keep people from getting sick.
Sanitation\n\nSanitation is keeping things clean so people stay healthy. It means using a toilet to take away pee and poop safely. It also means putting trash in a bin and washing hands with soap. When a town has good sanitation, the water stays clean and germs do not spread. A clean toilet at home or at school is part of sanitation. It helps everyone feel good and not get sick.
Santa Claus\n\nSanta Claus is a happy, kind man who brings gifts to children. He has a big white beard and wears a red suit with white fluffy parts. He lives far away at the North Pole with his wife, little helpers called elves, and flying reindeer. On Christmas Eve, he rides in a sleigh pulled by the reindeer and goes all around the world. He comes down the chimney and leaves toys under the tree. Many children write letters to him and leave out cookies and milk.
Santiago\n\nSantiago is a big city in a country called Chile. It sits in a valley with tall mountains all around it. Many people live there, more than in any other city in Chile. The mountains can trap dirty air, so the sky sometimes looks gray. People in Santiago go to work, ride buses, and play in parks just like in other big cities.
Santo Domingo\n\nSanto Domingo is a big city by the sea. It has old stone buildings and a long wall from long ago. Many people live there, and they speak Spanish. The weather is warm all year, and sometimes big storms come. You can see a zoo with animals and a park with tall trees. People play baseball in a big field, and kids go to school to learn.
Sapphire\n\nSapphire is a shiny, hard stone that people wear as jewelry. It is most often blue, but it can also be pink, yellow, green, or even clear. People find it deep in the ground in faraway places like India and Africa. Kings and queens wear it on rings and crowns because it is very pretty and strong. A sapphire ring is a special gift that means love and truth.
Sarah\n\nSarah is a name for a girl. She can be a baby, a child, or a grown-up. You might meet a Sarah at school or at the park. She could have any color hair or eyes. A Sarah can be a friend who likes to play and share toys.
Sarajevo\n\nSarajevo is a big city in a country called Bosnia and Herzegovina. It has many houses, streets, and people. In the city, you can see tall towers for prayer, big churches, and old buildings all close together. Many people live there, and they come from different places and speak different languages. A long time ago, a big sports party called the Winter Olympics came to Sarajevo. People from all over the world came to play in the snow. Today, the city is busy and full of life again.
Sardine\n\nA sardine is a small, shiny fish that lives in the big, blue sea. It has silver skin and a long, thin body. Many sardines swim together in a big group called a school. People catch them and put them in small, flat cans with water or oil. You can find these cans at the grocery store. Some people eat them on crackers or bread. They are a good food that helps you grow strong.
Sardinia\n\nSardinia is a big island in the sea. It is the second biggest island in that sea, after a place called Sicily. The island has hills, tall mountains, and wide flat valleys. Its biggest city is Cagliari, where many people live. Around the main island, there are many tiny islands. People can take a boat to visit Sardinia and see its blue water and sandy beaches.
Satan\n\nSatan is a name for a bad spirit in some stories. It is not a person you can see. Many people who read the Bible or the Quran talk about it. In those books, it tries to make people choose wrong things instead of right things. Some stories say it was once a bright angel who became too proud. Other stories say it is just a word for the selfish part inside every person. You might hear the name in a church, a mosque, or a movie.
Satellite\n\nA satellite is a thing that goes around a bigger thing in space. It looks like a box or a drum with long flat wings. These wings catch light from the sun to give it power. People send satellites up into the sky on big rockets. It flies high above the clouds and goes around and around the Earth. It can take pictures of our planet and send them back to people on the ground. Some satellites help us talk on phones or watch TV shows from far away. You can sometimes see one at night as a tiny moving dot of light.
Satellite navigation\n\nSatellite navigation is a way to know exactly where you are. It uses signals from special machines high up in the sky called satellites. A small box in a car or a phone hears the signals and shows a map with a dot for your spot. It can tell you how to go to a new place by showing the way. Many people use it when they drive or walk to find a store or a friend's house.
Satellite television\n\nSatellite television is a way to watch TV shows. It uses a big metal dish that sits outside a house or on a roof. The dish catches signals from a satellite far up in space. The satellite sends the TV shows down to the dish. Then a box inside the house puts the shows on the TV screen. Many people pay money each month to get this TV service. It helps people watch shows even where cable TV does not reach.
Satire\n\nSatire is a funny way to show that something is silly or wrong. It can be a story, a picture, a play, or a TV show. It makes people laugh, but it also makes them think. For example, a cartoon might show a grown-up acting like a baby to say that the grown-up is being foolish. Satire helps us see when people in charge do things that are not fair or smart.
Saturday\n\nSaturday is a day of the week. It comes after Friday and before Sunday. Many children do not go to school on Saturday. It is a day for playing, resting, and having fun with family. Some people go to the park or watch cartoons in the morning.
Saturn\n\nSaturn is a big planet far away in the sky. It is the sixth planet from the Sun. It has a round shape but is a little flat at the top and bottom. It spins very fast, so a day there is only about 10 hours long. Saturn is famous for its beautiful rings. The rings are made of ice, rocks, and dust. They go around the planet like a big, flat circle. You can see them with a telescope. Saturn is very light for its size. If you could put it in a giant pool of water, it would float. It is mostly made of gas, not hard ground like Earth. It has many moons. The biggest moon is called Titan. Saturn is very cold and has strong winds. It is one of the biggest planets in our solar system.
Sauce\n\nA sauce is a yummy liquid you put on food. It can be thick like ketchup or thin like gravy. You find it in the kitchen, on top of noodles, or next to meat. It makes food taste better and feel wet in your mouth. Ketchup is a red sauce you dip fries in. Gravy is a brown sauce you pour on turkey.
Saudi Arabia\n\nSaudi Arabia is a big country far away. It has lots of hot, dry sand and a few big cities. People there speak a language called Arabic. Many people visit a special city called Mecca for a big prayer trip. It has a king who helps make the rules.
Sauna\n\nA sauna is a small hot room. It is made of wood and has benches to sit on. You find it at pools, gyms, and some houses. People sit inside it to feel warm and calm. The heat makes your skin wet with sweat. After a sauna, many people jump into cool water.
Sauropod\n\nA sauropod is a kind of big dinosaur that lived a long, long time ago. It had a very long neck, a long tail, and a small head. Its legs were thick like tree trunks. It ate plants and walked on land. You can see its bones in some museums. It was one of the biggest animals ever to walk on the ground.
Sausage\n\nA sausage is a food made from meat that is cut into tiny pieces. It is long and round, and it has a thin skin on the outside. You can find it at the store or at a cookout. People cook it on a grill or in a pan and eat it on a plate or in a bun. A hot dog is a kind of sausage that many kids like.
Savanna\n\nA savanna is a big, open land with lots of grass. It has a few trees and bushes spread out, but mostly you see tall grass. You can find it in hot places like Africa and Australia. Many animals live there, like elephants, zebras, and lions. In the dry time, it does not rain for a long while, and the grass turns brown. When the rain comes, it turns green again.
Save\n\nSave means to keep something safe. When you put a toy in a box, you save it for later. It also means to stop something from going away. You can save a cookie for your friend. Grown-ups save money in a bank to use another day. Saving is a good way to take care of things you love.
Saw\n\nA saw is a tool that cuts things. It has a long flat part with many sharp points that look like teeth. You can find it in a workshop or a garage. People push it back and forth to cut wood into smaller pieces. A builder might use it to make a board the right size for a shelf.
Sawfish\n\nA sawfish is a big fish that lives in the ocean. It has a long, flat body and a very long nose that looks like a saw with little teeth on the sides. It uses its saw-nose to dig in the sand and find food like crabs and shrimp. It can also swing its nose to hit other fish and eat them. You might see a sawfish in a big aquarium or in a picture book about sea animals.
Saxophone\n\nA saxophone is a shiny, curved tube that makes music. It has a mouthpiece with a thin piece of wood called a reed. When you blow into it, the reed shakes and makes a sound. You press keys with your fingers to change the notes. It comes in different sizes—some are small and high, some are big and low. People play it in bands, and you might hear it in happy, bouncy songs.
Say\n\nTo say is to use your voice to make words. When you say something, your mouth, tongue, and lips move to shape the sound. You can say hello to a friend or say what you want for lunch. People say things to share ideas and feelings. A baby learns to say words by listening to grown-ups.
Scaffold\n\nA scaffold is a big frame that helps people work on tall buildings. It is made of long sticks and flat boards put together. You can see it on the side of a house when someone is painting or fixing the wall. Workers stand on it to reach high places safely. It is only there for a short time and comes down when the job is done.
Scale\n\nA scale is a tool that tells you how heavy something is. It has a flat part to put things on and a part that shows a number. You can find a scale in a bathroom or a kitchen. People stand on it to see how much they weigh, or put food on it to see how much it weighs. When you step on it, the number goes up. It helps you know if something is light or heavy.
Scale (music)\n\nA scale in music is a set of notes that go up or down in order. It is like a ladder of sounds. You can hear it when someone plays the white keys on a piano from one C to the next C. It is used to make songs and tunes. Many children learn a scale by singing "do, re, mi, fa, so, la, ti, do".
Scale (zoology)\n\nA scale is a tiny, hard piece on an animal's body. It is flat and thin, like a little shield. You can find it on fish and snakes. It keeps the animal safe from bumps and scratches. If you touch a fish, it feels smooth and a little bumpy from all the scales. Some bugs like butterflies have scales on their wings too. Those scales are very small and can be bright colors.
Scale model\n\nA scale model is a small copy of a big thing. It looks just like the real thing, but it is much smaller. You can hold it in your hands. People make it to see what a big thing will look like before they build it. You might see a tiny car or a tiny house in a toy store. Some people collect them for fun.
Scallop\n\nA scallop is a small animal that lives in the ocean. It has two hard shells that open and close like a book. The shells are round and have lines like a fan. It lives on the sandy floor of the sea. It can swim by clapping its shells together fast. This helps it get away from animals that want to eat it, like starfish. People also eat scallops. The white part inside is soft and tastes good. You might see scallop shells at the beach or in a store.
Scandinavia\n\nScandinavia is a group of countries in the north of Europe. It has three main lands: Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. Some people also count Finland and Iceland. The land has big forests, tall mountains, and many lakes. Long ago, people called Vikings lived there and sailed on the sea. Today, people in Scandinavia speak languages that sound alike, like Swedish and Danish.
Scandinavian Mountains\n\nThe Scandinavian Mountains are a long row of tall hills in the north of Europe. They go through Norway, Sweden, and a little bit of Finland. On the west side, they drop right into the sea and make deep, narrow water paths called fjords. The top of the mountains is very cold, so big sheets of ice and snow stay there all year. Many reindeer live on these mountains and walk around to find food.
Scar\n\nA scar is a mark left on your skin after a cut or a scrape heals. It can look like a line or a patch that is a little different from the rest of your skin. Sometimes it is pink or lighter than the skin around it. You might have a small scar on your knee from falling down when you were little. It does not hurt, but it stays there to remind you that your body fixed itself.
Scare\n\nA scare is a sudden feeling you get when something surprises you. It makes your heart beat fast and your body jump a little. You might feel it when a friend says "boo!" from behind a door. It can also happen when you see a big shadow in the dark. The feeling goes away quickly, and then you might laugh or feel safe again.
Scarf\n\nA scarf is a long piece of cloth you wear around your neck or head. It is soft and can be made of wool or cotton. People wear it when it is cold outside to stay warm. Some people wear it on their head for special reasons. You might see a scarf in many colors like red, blue, or yellow. Mom or Dad might wrap one around your neck before you go out to play in the snow.
Scary\n\nScary is a feeling you get when something seems not safe. It can make your heart beat fast and your body feel tight. You might feel it when you hear a loud noise at night or see a big shadow. A dark room, a strange sound, or a monster in a book can be scary. When you feel it, you want to run to a grown-up for a hug. After a hug, the scary feeling often goes away.
Scene\n\nA scene is a small part of a bigger story. It is like a picture that shows one place and one time. You see a scene in a movie, a play, or a book. In a scene, people talk, move, or do something. For example, a scene might show a girl eating breakfast in her kitchen. Then the next scene shows her at school.
School\n\nA school is a place where children go to learn. It has many rooms called classrooms with desks and chairs. A teacher stands at the front and helps kids learn to read, write, and count. You can find a school in almost every town. Children go there on weekdays to play with friends and learn new things. Some schools have a playground with swings and a slide.
Science\n\nScience is a way to learn about the world. It helps us find out how things work. People who do science are called scientists. They look very closely at things, ask questions, and try things out to see what happens. There are many kinds of science. One kind looks at plants and animals. Another kind looks at stars and space. A third kind looks at how people think and feel. Science is all around you. When you mix colors or watch a bug, you are doing a little bit of science.
Science fiction\n\nScience fiction is a kind of make-believe story. It is about things that do not happen in real life, like spaceships, robots, and aliens. You can find it in books, movies, and TV shows. It shows what the future might look like. For example, a story about a boy who flies to the moon in a rocket is science fiction.
Scientific\n\nScience is a way of learning about the world. It helps us ask questions and find answers. You can see science when you mix colors, watch a plant grow, or see ice melt into water. People who do science are called scientists. They look closely at things, try new ideas, and write down what happens. Science is all around us every day.
Scientific law\n\nA scientific law is a rule that tells us how things in nature always happen. It is a short and clear idea that scientists find after many tests. It tells us what happens, not why it happens. You can see a law at work when you drop a ball and it falls down every time. Scientists use laws to guess what will happen next and to build new things. A law is not the same as a guess or a big idea that explains why. Sometimes a law can change if people learn new facts.
Scientific method\n\nThe scientific method is a way people find out true things about the world. It has steps: first, you ask a question. Then, you guess an answer. Next, you try a test to see if your guess is right. You look closely at what happens and write it down. After that, you think about what you learned. If your guess was wrong, you make a new guess and test again. Scientists use it to learn about stars, plants, animals, and many other things. A child can use it too, like when you test if a toy car goes faster on a smooth floor or a bumpy rug.
Scientist\n\nA scientist is a person who wants to know how things work. He asks many questions about the world. He watches things closely and writes down what he sees. He does tests to find answers. He works in a room with tools and special things. He teaches other people what he learns. Some scientists help make new things to help people. A scientist can study stars, animals, or how our bodies work.
Scissor\n\nScissor is a tool for cutting. It has two sharp blades that slide past each other. You hold it with your fingers through two round holes. People use it to cut paper, string, or cloth. You can find it at home, in school, or in an art box.
Scissors\n\nScissors are a tool that cuts things. It has two sharp blades that slide past each other. You hold it with your fingers in two small holes. You can find it at home, at school, or in a craft box. People use it to cut paper, string, or thin cloth. Some scissors are made just for kids and have a soft cover so they are safe. If you are left-handed, you need a special pair made for your hand.
Scooter\n\nA scooter is a toy with two small wheels and a long board to stand on. It has a tall bar with handles that you hold. You push the ground with one foot to make it go. Kids ride it on sidewalks and in parks. Some scooters fold up so you can carry them. It is a fun way to move around outside.
Score\n\nA score is a number that tells you how well you did. It shows up in games, tests, and races. When you get more points, your score goes up. A high score means you did a great job. You can see a score on a screen or on paper. It helps you know if you are getting better.
Scorpion\n\nA scorpion is a small animal with eight legs. It has a long tail that curves up over its back, and the tail ends in a sharp sting. It has two big claws near its mouth that it uses to grab food. Scorpions live in hot, dry places like deserts, and they hide under rocks to stay cool. It hunts bugs at night and uses its sting to stop them from moving so it can eat. Some scorpions glow green under a special light, but you cannot see that with your eyes.
Scotland\n\nScotland is a country in the north of Great Britain. It has green hills, tall mountains, and many islands around it. The capital city is Edinburgh, and the biggest city is Glasgow. People in Scotland speak English, and some also speak a language called Gaelic. You can see a flag with a white X on a blue sky, and men sometimes wear a skirt called a kilt. A famous animal from there is the Highland cow with long, shaggy hair.
Scouting\n\nScouting is a fun group for kids. It helps them learn to work together and be kind. They spend lots of time outside, playing games and going on walks. They also learn how to help other people. A Scout wears a special shirt and a neckerchief. You might see a group of Scouts in a park or at a parade.
Scrabble\n\nScrabble is a game you play on a board with small letter tiles. It is played by two, three, or four people. The board has many squares, and some squares give you extra points. Each player picks seven tiles and tries to make a word on the board. The first word must touch the star in the middle. After that, every new word must connect to a word already there. Letters like E and A are worth one point, but hard letters like Q and Z are worth ten points. When all the tiles are gone and one player has no tiles left, the game ends. The player with the most points wins.
Scramble\n\nScramble means to mix things up in a hurry. It can be when you stir eggs in a bowl until the yellow and white parts are all together. It can also be when you climb over rocks using your hands and feet. Sometimes people say "scramble" when they rush to get ready fast, like when you put on your shoes and coat to go outside.
Scratch\n\nScratch is a way to make things on a computer. It lets you put together colorful blocks to tell a story or make a game. You can make a cat move, jump, or dance on the screen. Many kids use it at school or at home to learn how computers think. It is like playing with building blocks, but on a screen.
Scratchy\n\nScratchy is a feeling that is rough and makes you want to rub your skin. It can come from a tag on a shirt, a wool sweater, or a dry piece of paper. When something is scratchy, it does not feel smooth or soft. You might feel it on your neck or your arm. Some people do not like scratchy things because they can make the skin red or itchy.
Screen\n\nA screen is a flat, shiny part on a TV, phone, or tablet. It lights up and shows pictures, words, and moving cartoons. You can touch some screens with your finger to make things happen. It is like a magic window that lets you see shows, games, and stories. Many people look at a screen every day to watch videos or talk to far-away friends.
Screw\n\nA screw is a small, pointy thing that holds pieces of wood together. It looks like a shiny stick with a round top and a sharp bottom. Around its body are little lines that twist like a slide. You find screws in chairs, tables, doors, and toys. A person uses a tool called a screwdriver to turn it. Turning it one way pushes it in tight. Turning it the other way pulls it out. This makes it easy to fix things without breaking them.
Script\n\nA script is a set of words that tells people what to say. It is like a recipe for a play, a movie, or a TV show. Actors read it to know their lines. You can find it in a book or on paper. When you watch a cartoon, the voices come from a script.
Scroll\n\nA scroll is a long piece of paper or animal skin with writing on it. It is rolled up like a tube. Long ago, people used scrolls instead of books. You can find old scrolls in museums. A scroll can tell a story or show a picture. When you unroll it, you see the words or drawings inside.
Scrub\n\nA scrub is when you rub something hard to make it clean. You can scrub your hands with soap and water to wash away dirt. You can scrub a dirty floor with a brush. When you scrub, you move your hand or a tool back and forth fast. It helps get sticky or messy spots off.
Sculpture\n\nA sculpture is a piece of art that you can walk around and see from all sides. It is not flat like a drawing; it stands up and has a front, a back, and sides. You can find it in parks, museums, or big open places in a city. People make it from stone, metal, wood, or clay. Some sculptures show people or animals, and some are just fun shapes. You might have seen a big statue of a person on a horse in a park—that is a sculpture.
Sea\n\nA sea is a very big pool of salty water. It looks blue or green and stretches far away until it meets the sky. You can find it at the beach, where the sand meets the water. People swim and play in it, and big boats float on top of it. It is home to fish, crabs, and soft plants that wave under the water. The water tastes salty, like tears. When the wind blows, it makes waves that splash on the shore. Some seas are warm, and some are cold. The biggest seas cover more of the Earth than the land does.
Sea cucumber\n\nA sea cucumber is a soft animal that lives on the ocean floor. It has a long, squishy body that feels like leather. It uses tiny tube feet to move slowly across the sand. Some people eat it, but it can also protect itself by shooting out sticky strings or a soap-like liquid. You might see one in a big fish tank at the aquarium.
Sea ice\n\nSea ice is frozen ocean water. It forms on the sea when it gets very cold. It is salty, not like ice from a freezer. It looks white or blue and can be bumpy. You find it near the North Pole and South Pole. It grows in winter and melts in summer. Animals like seals and polar bears live on it. People who live in cold places walk on it to hunt. It helps keep our Earth cool by bouncing sunlight back up.
Sea level\n\nSea level is how high the ocean water is. It is the middle height of the sea, not too high and not too low. The water goes up and down every day with the tides, so we use an average. People measure mountains and land from this level. When you go to the beach, you see the water line on the sand. That line shows the sea level at that time. The sea level is slowly getting higher because the Earth is getting warmer.
Sea of Azov\n\nThe Sea of Azov is a big, shallow body of water. It is not deep like other seas. It touches the land of two countries, Ukraine and Russia. A river called the Don flows into it. Many people live in cities near its shore. Ships sail on it to carry things from one place to another.
Sea of Japan\n\nThe Sea of Japan is a big body of water next to the ocean. It has water all around it, with land on some sides. Korea is on one side, Russia is on the top, and Japan is on the other side. It is very deep in some places, like a huge underwater bowl. Big boats sail on it to carry things from one country to another. People also catch fish in it. Some people call it by a different name, like the East Sea. You can see it on a map as a blue shape between the lands.
Sea of Okhotsk\n\nThe Sea of Okhotsk is a big body of water. It is part of the ocean near Russia and Japan. In winter, much of it is covered with thick ice, so boats cannot move. Many islands sit inside it, and some have no people. On those quiet islands, seals, sea lions, and birds make their homes and raise their babies.
Sea otter\n\nA sea otter is a small animal that lives in the ocean. It has thick, soft brown fur that keeps it warm in cold water. It lives near the coast where the water is not too deep. It floats on its back and uses a rock to crack open hard shells of clams and sea urchins so it can eat the food inside. It is one of the few animals that uses a tool. A sea otter sometimes wraps itself in long seaweed called kelp so it does not float away while it sleeps.
Sea snake\n\nA sea snake is a snake that lives in the ocean. It has a long, thin body and a flat tail that looks like a paddle. It uses its tail to swim very well. It lives in warm water near the shore. It eats fish and small sea animals. It must come up to the top of the water to breathe air. It can close its nose holes when it goes under water. Some sea snakes have very strong poison, so people should not touch them.
Sea turtle\n\nA sea turtle is a big animal that lives in the ocean. It has a hard shell on its back, four flippers, and a small head. You can find it swimming in warm seas all over the world. It uses its flippers to move through the water like a bird flies in the air. Some sea turtles are very big, as long as a grown-up is tall, and others are smaller. A sea turtle comes to the sandy beach to lay its eggs in a hole. When the baby turtles hatch, they crawl to the water all by themselves.
Sea urchin\n\nA sea urchin is a small round animal that lives in the ocean. It has a hard shell covered with many pointy spikes. The spikes help keep it safe from fish that want to eat it. It moves slowly on the sea floor using tiny tube feet. Some people eat the soft part inside a sea urchin, but you must be careful because the spikes can hurt your hand.
Seabed\n\nThe seabed is the ground at the bottom of the ocean. It is very deep down under the water. It can be sandy, muddy, or full of rocks. Many animals live there, like fish that glow and crabs that walk sideways. People use special boats and small underwater cars to go see it. It is dark and cold because the sun cannot shine that far down.
Seabird\n\nA seabird is a bird that lives near the big blue sea. It has wings and feathers, and its feet can help it swim. You can find it flying over the waves or resting on rocky islands. It eats fish and other small things from the water. A seagull is one kind of seabird that you might see at the beach.
Seafood\n\nSeafood is food that comes from the sea. It can be fish, shrimp, crab, or other animals that live in the water. People catch seafood with nets or traps. It is good for your body and helps you grow strong. You might see seafood at a store on ice, or on a plate at dinner. Some people like to eat it with rice or in a soup.
Seahorse\n\nA seahorse is a small fish that lives in warm ocean water. It has a head that looks a little like a horse, and a long tail that can hold onto plants. It is not a strong swimmer, so it hides in seagrass to stay safe. A seahorse is very special because the daddy carries the eggs in a pouch on his belly until they hatch. You might see a seahorse in a big tank at an aquarium.
Seal\n\nA seal is an animal that lives in the sea. It has a round body, big eyes, and soft fur. It swims fast with its flat back feet. You can see it lying on rocks or ice near the water. It eats fish and makes a funny sound like a bark.
Seamount\n\nA seamount is a big mountain under the sea. It is tall and wide, but the top stays deep under the water. It is made when hot rock comes out of the ground under the sea and cools down. Many fish and other sea animals live near it because the water moves around it and brings food. Some seamounts are so big that if they fell over, they could make a very big wave.
Search engine\n\nA search engine is a special website that helps you find things on the internet. It has a big box where you type a word or a question. Then it shows a list of pages that match your word. The best pages come first. You can click on a page to see it. Google is one search engine many people use. It is like a helper that knows where almost everything is kept online.
Season\n\nA season is a part of the year. It has its own kind of weather. In many places, there are four seasons: spring, summer, autumn, and winter. Spring is when flowers bloom and baby animals are born. Summer is hot and sunny, and you can play outside. Autumn is when leaves turn red and yellow and fall from trees. Winter is cold, and sometimes snow falls. Some places have only two seasons: a wet season and a dry season. People do different things in each season, like swimming in summer or building a snowman in winter.
Seat\n\nA seat is a place to sit down. It can be a chair, a bench, or a spot on the floor. You find seats in many places like your home, school, or a bus. People use a seat to rest their legs when they are tired. A seat can be soft like a sofa or hard like a wooden stool.
Seattle\n\nSeattle is a big city in the state of Washington. It has a tall tower called the Space Needle that looks like a flying saucer on top. The city sits next to water on both sides, so you can see boats and big ships. Many people work there at places that make computers, airplanes, and coffee. It rains often, but the rain is usually light and soft. You can ride a train that goes high above the streets. In the fall, people cheer for football and soccer teams.
Seaweed\n\nSeaweed is a plant that lives in the ocean. It can be green, brown, or red. It grows near the shore on rocks, where there is light from the sun. It makes its own food from sunlight, just like plants on land. People eat seaweed in many places, like Japan and Korea. They dry it into thin sheets to wrap around rice. Some seaweed is also put into toothpaste and paint. You might see dried seaweed at the store or in a bowl of soup.
Second\n\nA second is a tiny piece of time. It is very short, like one quick heartbeat. You can count seconds by saying "one, two, three" slowly. There are 60 seconds in one minute. When you look at a clock, the thin hand moves one small mark every second. People use seconds to measure how long things take, like how fast you can run to the door.
Secondary school\n\nSecondary school is a school for bigger kids. It comes after primary school. Kids go there when they are about 11 or 12 years old. They stay until they are 16 or 18. In secondary school, kids learn harder things like math, reading, and science. They move to a new grade each year. Some places call it high school or middle school. At the end, they take a big test to show what they know.
Secret\n\nA secret is something you know that you do not tell everyone. It is like a quiet thought you keep inside. You might share it with a best friend or a grown-up you trust. Sometimes a secret is a happy surprise, like a gift you hide before a party. Other times, a secret can feel heavy, and it is good to tell a safe person. Keeping a secret means you choose who gets to know.
Secret society\n\nA secret society is a group of people who meet in secret. It has special rules and signs that only the people inside know. You cannot see what it does because it hides its work. Some people tell stories about a secret group called the Illuminati, but no one knows if it is real. A secret society is like a club with a big secret.
Secretarybird\n\nA secretarybird is a big bird that walks on the ground. It has very long legs, a gray body, and black feathers on its wings and tail. It also has long black feathers sticking out from the back of its head, like old-time pens. It lives in Africa, in places with lots of grass and few trees. It hunts by walking and stomping on its food, like snakes and mice. It is famous for killing snakes with its strong feet.
Section\n\nA section is a part of something bigger. It is like a slice of a cake or a piece of a puzzle. You can find a section in a book, where it is a small group of pages. In a store, a section is a spot for one kind of thing, like toys or fruit. When you sit in a car, you sit in the back section. A section helps you find things or know where you are.
Security\n\nSecurity is keeping people and things safe from danger. It is like a strong wall that stops bad things from coming in. You see it at the airport, where people check bags to keep everyone safe. Banks have it too, with big doors and cameras. At home, a lock on the door is a kind of security. It helps you feel safe when you sleep at night.
Sediment\n\nSediment is tiny bits of dirt, sand, or rock. It sinks to the bottom of water, like in a river or a lake. Over a long time, more bits pile on top and press down hard. This can turn it into a new kind of rock. You can see it when you scoop up wet sand and the water gets cloudy.
Sedimentary rock\n\nA sedimentary rock is a kind of rock made from tiny bits that settle down in water. It often has flat lines inside, like a stack of pancakes. You can see these lines in big cliffs by the ocean or in a canyon. It is made when sand, mud, or little shells pile up and get pressed together over a very, very long time. Some kinds are soft and crumbly, like chalk you use on a sidewalk. Other kinds are hard, like the stone in old buildings. Sandstone and limestone are two common types. You might find a piece of it near a river or at the beach.
See\n\nSee is what your eyes do. It lets you know what is around you. When you look at a red ball, you see the color red and its round shape. You can see things that are near, like your hand, and things that are far, like the moon. You use seeing every day to read books, watch TV, and find your toys.
Seed\n\nA seed is a tiny thing that can grow into a new plant. It has a hard coat on the outside and a baby plant inside. It also has food stored inside to help the baby plant start growing. You can find seeds in many places, like inside fruits or in packets at the store. When you put a seed in dirt and give it water and warmth, it wakes up and begins to grow. First, it sends a little root down and a little shoot up. Later, it needs sunlight to make its own food. Many seeds are good to eat, like sunflower seeds, beans, and rice. An apple has small brown seeds inside, and you can see them when you cut it open.
Seek\n\nTo seek means to look for something. When you seek, you use your eyes and move around to find a thing. You might seek a lost toy under the bed. A dog seeks a bone it hid in the yard. When you play hide-and-seek, one person closes their eyes and counts, then seeks the others.
Seem\n\nTo seem is to look like something, even if it is not really that way. It is how a thing or a person shows itself to our eyes or our mind. For example, a toy might seem real, but it is just a toy. A day might seem sunny, but then rain comes. When a friend is quiet, they might seem sad, but really they are just tired.
Seesaw\n\nA seesaw is a long, flat board that goes up and down. It sits on a middle piece so both ends can move. You find it at a playground or in a park. Two children sit on it, one on each end. When one child pushes up with their legs, the other side goes down. It is fun to play on with a friend.
Selection\n\nSelection means picking one thing from a group. It is when you look at many things and choose the one you like best. You do a selection when you pick a toy from the toy box. At snack time, you make a selection between an apple and a banana. A selection can be big or small, like picking a book to read before bed.
Self-esteem\n\nSelf-esteem is how much you like yourself. It is a feeling inside that says you are good and can do things. When you have high self-esteem, you feel happy and brave. When it is low, you may feel sad or think you are not good at anything. You can build it by trying new things and hearing kind words from people who love you.
Sell\n\nTo sell means to give something to someone and get money for it. When you have a lemonade stand, you sell cups of lemonade. A store sells food, toys, and clothes. The person who buys gives coins or paper money to the person who sells. After you sell something, it is not yours anymore.
Seller\n\nA seller is a person who gives you something and you give them money. They work in a store, a market, or a shop. They show you toys, food, or clothes and you can pick what you like. When you pay, they smile and say thank you. You see a seller when you go to the grocery store with your mom or dad.
Semiconductor\n\nA semiconductor is a special material that helps control electricity. It is inside many things you see every day, like toys that light up, phones, and tablets. It can let a little bit of electricity go through, or stop it, like a tiny gate. People use it to make computers and games work. Without it, your favorite cartoons would not play on the screen.
Send\n\nTo send means to make something go from you to another person or place. It is like when you give a letter to the mail carrier, and they take it to your friend's house. You can also send a message on a phone or a computer. When you send a ball, you throw or roll it to someone else. Sending helps people share things even when they are far apart.
Senegal\n\nSenegal is a country in Africa. It has a big city called Dakar where many people live. The land has a long river in the north and a hot, sunny sky most of the year. People grow peanuts, mangoes, and green beans in the ground. They also catch fish from the sea. Long ago, people from far away came in big boats. Today, people in Senegal speak French and other local words.
Senegal River\n\nThe Senegal River is a long, moving body of water in Africa. It is very long and touches three countries: Senegal, Mauritania, and Mali. It starts where two smaller rivers meet in a place called Bafoulabé. Near the end, it flows past a city on an island called Saint-Louis. Then it goes into the big ocean. People built two big walls in the river to hold water and stop salty sea water. Boats can go on parts of it, and people use its water for farms.
Sense\n\nA sense is a way your body learns about the world. It helps you see, hear, smell, taste, and feel things. Your eyes give you the sense of sight. Your ears give you the sense of hearing. Your nose gives you the sense of smell. Your tongue gives you the sense of taste. Your skin gives you the sense of touch. Some animals have other senses too. A fish can feel water moving around it. That helps it swim away from danger.
Sense of smell\n\nYour sense of smell lets you know what things smell like. It is one of the five main senses, like seeing and hearing. It starts in your nose. When you sniff, tiny bits of smell float into your nose. Inside, special parts pick up the smell and send a message to your brain. Your brain then tells you what the smell is. It helps you enjoy yummy food and know when something is not safe, like smoke. It can also make you remember happy times, like the smell of cookies baking. Some animals, like dogs, have a much stronger sense of smell than people.
Sentence\n\nA sentence is a group of words that tells a full idea. It starts with a big letter and ends with a dot, a question mark, or an exclamation mark. You see sentences in books, on signs, and when people talk. It helps us share what we think or feel. For example, "The cat is soft" is a sentence.
Seoul\n\nSeoul is a very big city in South Korea. It is the capital, so many important people work there. A long river called the Han River runs through the middle of it. You can see tall buildings, old palaces, and big parks in Seoul. Many buses and trains help people move around the city. Seoul has big sports places where people play soccer and baseball. It also has a tall tower on a hill where you can look far and see the whole city.
Separate\n\nTo separate means to move things apart so they are not together. You can separate a pile of red blocks from blue blocks. At snack time, you might separate your crackers into two groups. When you clean up, you separate toys into different bins. It helps keep things neat and easy to find.
September\n\nSeptember is a month of the year. It comes after August and before October. It has 30 days. In many places, the weather starts to get cooler, and leaves on trees may change color. Children often go back to school in September. It is the start of fall in some parts of the world.
Sequence\n\nA sequence is a list of things that follow one after another in a set order. It can be a list of colors, like red then blue then yellow. It can also be a list of numbers, like 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. The order matters—if you change the order, you get a different list. Some lists have an end, like the numbers 1 to 5. Other lists go on forever, like the even numbers 2, 4, 6, 8, and so on. You see sequences every day when you count steps or sing a song with a pattern.
Serbia\n\nSerbia is a country in Europe. It has green hills, big rivers, and many forests. The capital city is called Belgrade. People in Serbia speak Serbian. They grow lots of raspberries and other fruits. Many birds fly over Serbia when they travel to warm places. Kids in Serbia like to play football and basketball.
Serengeti\n\nSerengeti is a big, flat land in Africa with lots of grass and trees. It has wide open spaces where many wild animals live. You can find it in the countries of Tanzania and Kenya. Every year, huge groups of animals like zebras and wildebeests walk a long way to find fresh grass and water. This big walk is called a migration. The Serengeti also has a special park where people come to see lions, elephants, and giraffes.
Series\n\nA series is a group of things that come one after another. It can be a set of books, like the stories about a curious monkey. It can also be a set of TV shows that you watch every week. Each part has a number, like book 1, book 2, book 3. You can find a series in a library or on a screen.
Serious\n\nSerious means something is not a joke. It is a way to talk about things that are very important. When a grown-up has a serious face, they are not smiling and they are thinking hard. A doctor might say a sickness is serious, which means the person needs to get help fast. A fire is a serious thing because it can hurt people. When you cross the street, it is serious to look both ways.
Service\n\nA service is something one person does to help another person. It is not a thing you can hold in your hand. When a doctor makes you feel better, that is a service. When a bus driver takes you to school, that is a service too. A waiter brings food to your table at a restaurant. Many people work by giving a service to others.
Service (economics)\n\nA service is something one person does for another person. It is not a toy or a thing you can hold. When you get a haircut, the barber gives you a service. When a bus driver takes you to school, that is a service. Some services make things you can touch, like a builder making a house. But the work of building is still a service. You do not own the person who helps you, but you may own the thing they make.
Sesame\n\nSesame is a plant that grows small seeds we can eat. It has pretty flowers and can grow taller than a grown-up. The seeds hide inside little pods on the plant. People use the seeds to make oil for cooking. You might see sesame seeds on top of a hamburger bun or a bagel.
Set\n\nA set is a group of things put together. It is like a bag that holds items. You can find sets in math class or when you sort toys at home. People use sets to see what things belong together. For example, a set of your red blocks is all the red blocks you have.
Settlement\n\nA settlement is a place where people live together. It can be a small town with a few houses, or a big city with many tall buildings. People build homes, shops, and schools in a settlement. You can find it near a river, by the sea, or on flat land. A settlement has roads so people can walk or drive. Many families make their life there, and children play in parks or yards.
Seven\n\nSeven is a number. It comes after six and before eight. You can see it on a clock, on a calendar, or when you count your toys. If you have seven crayons, you have one more than six. Some people say seven is a lucky number.
Seventeen\n\nSeventeen is a group of thirteen singers and dancers from South Korea. They make happy music and do big, fun dances together. You can see them on a screen when they sing songs and wear bright clothes. Many people around the world love to watch them and listen to their songs. They smile and wave to the crowd when they are on stage.
Sew\n\nSew is when you use a needle and thread to join pieces of cloth. It looks like a tiny silver stick with a hole at one end, and the thread goes through the hole. You can find needles and thread in a sewing box at home. People sew to fix a hole in a shirt or to make a new dress. A child might see a grown-up sew a button back on a coat.
Sewage treatment\n\nSewage treatment is a way to clean dirty water from homes and factories. It happens in a big place with many tanks and pipes. First, big things like rags are taken out with a screen. Then sand and tiny stones fall to the bottom of a tank. Next, the water sits so heavy bits sink and fat floats up. After that, air is mixed in to help tiny bugs eat the bad stuff. The clean water can go back to a river. The leftover goo can be dried and used on farms to help plants grow.
Sewing\n\nSewing is a way to join pieces of cloth together. It uses a thin, pointy tool called a needle and a long, thin string called thread. You can sew by hand or with a big helper called a sewing machine. People sew to make clothes like shirts and pants. They also sew to fix a hole or put a button back on. Some sewing adds pretty shapes and colors to cloth, like a flower on a bag. You may see sewing at home when a grown-up fixes a torn toy or makes a new dress.
Sewing machine\n\nA sewing machine is a tool that joins pieces of cloth together with thread. It has a needle that moves up and down very fast. You can find it in many homes and in big places where clothes are made. It helps people sew much faster than using their hands. For example, when your shirt gets a hole, a sewing machine can fix it quickly.
Sex\n\nSex is a word for being a boy or a girl. It is something you are born with. Boys have a penis, and girls have a vagina. Most people are either a boy or a girl. When a baby is born, the doctor says 'It's a boy!' or 'It's a girl!' That tells the sex of the baby.
Sexism\n\nSexism is when someone thinks boys are better than girls, or girls are better than boys, just because of being a boy or a girl. It is not fair. It can make people feel sad or left out. For example, if a teacher says only boys can play with blocks, that is sexism. Or if someone says only girls can wear pink, that is sexism too. Everyone should get to do what they like and be treated the same.
Sextant\n\nA sextant is a tool that helps people find their way on the sea. It looks like a piece of a pie with a small telescope and a moving arm. Sailors use it on a boat to look at the sky. It measures how high the sun or a star is above the water line. With that number, they can tell where they are on a map. Long ago, big ships always carried one so they would not get lost.
Sexual Orientation\n\nSexual orientation is about who a person loves or likes in a special way. It is a feeling inside, not something you can see from the outside. Some people love someone of a different kind, like a boy loving a girl. Some people love someone of the same kind, like a girl loving a girl. Some people love both kinds. It is a part of who a person is, like the color of their eyes. Everyone's feelings are okay and normal.
Sexually Transmitted Infection\n\nA sexually transmitted infection is a sickness that can pass from one person to another during close body contact. It is caused by tiny germs that you cannot see. Doctors can help make it better with medicine. The best way to stay safe is to wash hands often and listen to grown-ups about keeping clean.
Seychelles\n\nSeychelles is a small country made of many islands. It sits in the big blue Indian Ocean, far away from other lands. The islands have warm sand, tall palm trees, and clear water. People there speak different words, like Creole, English, and French. Many visitors come to see the pretty beaches and swim with colorful fish. A big, slow turtle called the Aldabra Giant Tortoise lives on the islands. It is one of the biggest turtles in the world. The islands also have a special bird called the Seychelles Black Parrot. It is the country's own bird and is kept safe there.
Shade\n\nShade is a cool, dark spot where the sun does not shine. It is made when something blocks the light, like a big tree or a house. You can find it under a leafy tree on a hot day. It helps you feel cool when the sun is too warm. A hat can also make a little shade for your face.
Shadow\n\nA shadow is a dark shape that shows up when something blocks light. It looks like the thing that made it, but it is flat and has no colors. You can see it on the ground, on a wall, or on the floor when the sun or a lamp shines. It moves when the thing moves, and it gets bigger or smaller when the light moves. On a sunny day, you can chase your own shadow on the sidewalk.
Shake\n\nA shake is a quick move back and forth. You can do it with your body, your head, or your hands. When you shake a toy, it makes a rattling sound. People shake hands to say hello. A dog shakes its body to get water off after a bath. You can also shake a bottle of juice before you drink it.
Shakespeare\n\nShakespeare is a name of a man who wrote many plays and poems. He lived a long time ago in a country called England. He wrote stories about kings, queens, and people in love. Some of his plays are funny, and some are sad. People still read his words and watch his plays on a stage today. You might see a picture of him with a bald head and a beard.
Shaman\n\nA shaman is a person who helps people feel better. He or she talks to spirits and nature. You might find a shaman in a village or a forest. He or she uses songs, drums, and special plants to heal. Some people go to a shaman when they are sick or sad.
Shamanism\n\nShamanism is a way some people talk to spirits. A person who does this is called a shaman. They use drums, songs, and special dances to feel close to the spirit world. People in many places, like cold northern lands and hot jungles, have shamans. A shaman might help sick people feel better or ask spirits for good weather. Long ago, many groups had a shaman, and some still do today.
Shame\n\nShame is a feeling you get when you think you did something wrong. It can make your face feel hot and your eyes look down. You might feel it when you break a rule, even if no one saw you. Sometimes grown-ups tell children to feel shame to help them learn. When you grow up, you learn the difference between shame and a feeling called guilt. Guilt is when you feel bad about what you did, not about who you are.
Shampoo\n\nShampoo is a soapy liquid for your hair. It comes in a bottle and smells nice, like flowers or fruit. You find it in the bathroom, near the tub or shower. When you wash your hair, you squeeze a little bit into your hand, rub it into your hair, and it makes bubbles. Then you rinse it out with water. It helps keep your hair clean and soft.
Shanghai\n\nShanghai is a very big city in China. It has many tall buildings, busy streets, and lots of people. You can find it near a big river and the sea. People go there to see bright lights, ride boats, and visit fun parks. One famous spot is a tall tower that looks like a giant pearl.
Shape\n\nA shape is the way something looks on the outside. It can be flat like a drawing on paper, or it can be round and fat like a ball. You see shapes everywhere. A door is a tall rectangle. A clock on the wall is a circle. A slice of pizza looks like a triangle. When you play with blocks, you hold cubes and long boxes. Those are shapes you can pick up. Even a star in the sky looks like a tiny pointy shape. Shapes help us name what we see.
Share\n\nA share is a tiny piece of a big company. When you have a share, you own a small part of that company. People buy shares to help the company grow. If the company does well, the share can be worth more money. You cannot hold a share in your hand like a toy—it is a special paper or a note on a computer. Many grown-ups talk about shares when they plan for the future.
Shark\n\nA shark is a big fish that lives in the sea. It has a long body, strong jaws, and many sharp teeth. Its skin feels rough if you rub it the wrong way. Sharks swim in oceans all over the world. They use their fins to move fast and turn. Some sharks eat other fish, and some eat tiny sea animals. A great white shark is one kind you might see in a book or on TV.
Sharp\n\nSharp means something has a very thin edge or a pointy tip. It can cut or poke things easily. A knife is sharp, and so is a needle. You find sharp things in the kitchen, like scissors. Be careful with sharp things because they can hurt you. A pencil tip is sharp after you sharpen it.
Shaving\n\nShaving is when you cut hair off your skin with a sharp tool. The tool is called a razor. It has a small, flat blade that slides over the skin. Many men shave the hair on their face every morning. Some men shave all the hair off, and some leave a little bit. When a man leaves hair under his nose, it is called a mustache. When he leaves hair on his chin, it is called a goatee. Some men also shave the hair on their head to be smooth and bald. Soldiers in the army often shave their heads. You might see your dad or grandpa shaving at the sink with white foam on their face.
She\n\nShe is a word we use to talk about a girl or a woman. When you see a girl playing, you can say, "She is playing." It is a small word that takes the place of a name. You hear it in stories, songs, and when people talk about someone they know.
Shed\n\nA shed is a small house for your yard. It has four walls, a roof, and a door. You find it in a garden or behind a house. People use it to keep tools like shovels and rakes. It can also hold a lawn mower or bikes. Some sheds are made of wood, and some are made of metal. It keeps things dry when it rains.
Sheep\n\nA sheep is a soft, fluffy animal that lives on a farm. It has four legs, a woolly coat, and a short tail. You can find it in green fields eating grass. People keep sheep for the warm wool that grows on its body. The wool is cut off once a year to make clothes like sweaters and socks. A baby sheep is called a lamb, and it says "baa."
Sheet\n\nA sheet is a big, flat piece of cloth. It is soft and covers your bed. You sleep on top of it or under it. It keeps you warm and cozy at night. Mom or Dad washes it to make it clean and fresh.
Shelf\n\nA shelf is a flat board that holds things. It is often made of wood or metal and sticks out from a wall. You can find it in a house, a school, or a store. People put books, toys, or cups on it so the floor stays neat. A shelf in your room might hold your favorite storybooks.
Shell\n\nA shell is a hard cover that some animals make on their body. It can be round, long, or shaped like a twist. You find shells at the beach, in the sand, or in the water. The animal inside uses it as a safe house to hide from bigger animals. When the animal grows, it may leave the old shell behind. A child might pick up a pretty shell and hold it to their ear to hear the ocean sound.
Shia\n\nShia is a big group of people who follow Islam. They believe that a man named Ali was the right leader after Muhammad. They pray in special buildings called mosques. Many Shia people live in countries like Iran and Iraq. They have special days to remember important people from long ago.
Shia Islam\n\nShia Islam is a way some people follow the religion of Islam. They believe that after the Prophet Muhammad, his family member Ali should have been the leader. They pray, fast, and go to special buildings called mosques, just like other Muslims. They also remember a sad story about Ali's son Hussein, who was hurt a long time ago. Many Shia Muslims live in countries like Iran and Iraq.
Shield\n\nA shield is a flat thing you hold to stay safe. It blocks things that can hurt you, like sticks or rocks. Long ago, people made it from wood or animal skin. Today, police and soldiers use it to stop things from hitting them. Some shields are big and cover the whole body. Others are small and round, like a little plate. You might see a shield in a story about knights. A knight holds it in one hand to block a sword.
Shiitake\n\nShiitake is a kind of mushroom that people can eat. It has a round cap on top and a short stem under it. It grows on trees like oak in cool places. People cook it in soups and other foods because it tastes good. You might see it in a store or in a warm bowl of soup.
Shin\n\nA shin is the front part of your leg, below your knee. It is the hard bone you can feel when you touch the front of your leg. When you run and bump your leg into something, it can hurt a lot. You use it to stand, walk, and jump. It helps hold your body up straight.
Shine\n\nShine means to give off bright light. The sun shines in the sky during the day. A lamp shines light in a dark room. When you clean a mirror, it can shine. Stars shine at night. Some things like gold or a new toy can look shiny and bright.
Shinkansen\n\nShinkansen is a very fast train in Japan. It has a long, pointy nose that looks like a bullet. You find it on special train tracks that go between big cities. It carries people from one place to another very quickly. If you see a picture of a white train with a sharp front, that might be a Shinkansen.
Shinto\n\nShinto is a very old way of thinking and doing things in Japan. It is about spirits called kami. People believe kami live in trees, rivers, mountains, and even in the sun. A shrine is a special house where people go to say hello to the kami. They clap their hands and bow to show respect. Many festivals happen all year with music, dancing, and bright clothes. Some families have a tiny shrine at home to remember the kami every day.
Shiny\n\nShiny means something is very bright and sparkly. It looks like it has little lights on it. You can see shiny things when the sun hits a clean window, a new coin, or a puddle of water. A mirror is shiny because you can see your face in it. Some toys and stickers are shiny too, and they catch your eye right away.
Ship\n\nA ship is a big thing that moves on water. It is bigger than a boat. It has a long body and a tall part that sticks up. You can see it on the sea, a lake, or a big river. People use it to carry things like toys, food, and clothes from one place to another. Some ships carry people on fun trips. A long time ago, ships used the wind to move. Now they use engines. You might see a ship in a picture book or at a harbor.
Shipbuilding\n\nShipbuilding is the job of making big boats that go on the sea. It happens in a very large place called a shipyard, right next to the water. Workers use strong metal to build the outside of the boat, piece by piece. They also put in big engines so the boat can move. When the boat is ready, it slides into the water for the first time. Today, most big boats are built in countries like South Korea and China.
Shirt\n\nA shirt is a piece of clothing that covers the top part of your body. It has a hole for your head and two holes for your arms. Some shirts have long sleeves that go all the way to your hands, and some have short sleeves that stop at your shoulders. A shirt can have buttons down the front or no buttons at all. You can find shirts in a closet or a store. People wear a shirt every day to stay warm and look nice. A T-shirt is a soft, comfy kind of shirt with no collar and short sleeves.
Shiva\n\nShiva is a god that many people in India love. He is part of a group of three big gods. He has blue skin and three eyes. One eye sits on his forehead. He lives high up on a cold mountain with his family. People pray to him to take away bad things. They also dance for him because he is the god of dancing. You can see a big statue of him in a city called Bangalore.
Shiver\n\nA shiver is a quick shake your body makes when you feel cold. It looks like your arms and legs move fast for a short time. You can feel it when you step outside on a chilly day without a coat. It helps your body warm up by moving your muscles. Sometimes you also shiver when you are scared or very excited.
Shoe\n\nA shoe is something you wear on your foot. It covers the bottom and sides of your foot to keep it safe and clean. You put one shoe on each foot, so they always come in pairs. People wear shoes outside to walk on the street, in the park, or at the store. Some shoes are soft and light for running fast. Other shoes are tall and called boots. Boots keep your feet dry in rain and mud. At home, you might wear soft slippers to keep your feet warm. Shoes can be many colors and shapes. Some are shiny and fancy for parties. A shoe has a bottom part called a sole that touches the ground.
Shoebill\n\nA shoebill is a big bird with a very special beak. It looks like a shoe, so people call it a shoebill. It has long legs, a long neck, and gray feathers. It lives in wet, grassy places in Africa. It stands very still in the water and waits for fish. Then it scoops them up with its big beak. It also eats frogs and small water snakes. It is a quiet bird and does not make many sounds.
Shogi\n\nShogi is a board game from Japan. It is like chess, but with its own rules. It has a square board with many small squares. Two people play it, and each person starts with 20 pieces. The pieces are flat and have writing on them. When you take a piece from the other player, you can put it back on the board as your own piece. This makes the game very fun and hard to tie. You can find it in Japan, and some people play it in other countries too.
Shoot\n\nShoot means to send something out very fast. You can shoot a ball with your foot in a game. You can shoot a picture with a camera to save a happy moment. In some stories, a person might shoot an arrow from a bow. It is a quick action that makes something go far.
Shop\n\nA shop is a place where people buy things. It has a door, a window, and shelves with food, toys, or clothes. You can find a shop on a street or in a mall. People go inside to pick what they need and pay with money. A bakery is a shop that sells bread and cakes.
Shopkeeper\n\nA shopkeeper is a person who works in a shop. He sells things like food, toys, or clothes. You can see him behind a counter when you go to a store. He helps you find what you need and takes your money. Sometimes he puts new things on shelves so the shop looks full and nice.
Shopping\n\nShopping is when you go to a store to look at things or buy them with money. It can be a big building with many little shops inside, or just one small shop on a street. People who shop are called shoppers. Sometimes they buy food, clothes, or toys. Other times they just walk around and look. Shopping can be fun to do with a friend or family. It can make you feel happy and less worried. You can also shop on a computer or a phone without going to a store.
Shore\n\nA shore is the land right next to a big body of water. It is where the water meets the sand, rocks, or dirt. You can find it at the beach, by a lake, or along a river. People like to walk on it, build sandcastles, or look for shells. It is a good place to put your feet in the water and feel the waves.
Short\n\nShort is when something is not long. It is the opposite of tall or long. A short pencil is easy to hold in a small hand. A short story has only a few words. When you take a short walk, you come back home very soon.
Short story\n\nA short story is a made-up tale that is not very long. It has a beginning, a middle, and an end. You can find it in a book or hear someone tell it out loud. It tells about people or animals and what happens to them. A short story can be as quick as a few words, like "The cat sat. It saw a bug. It jumped."
Shot\n\nA shot is a small drink of medicine. It comes in a tiny cup or a spoon. You find it at home when you are sick. A grown-up gives it to you to help you feel better. It can taste sweet or yucky. Sometimes a shot is also a quick poke from a doctor with a needle, but that one hurts a little.
Shot put\n\nShot put is a sport where you push a heavy ball far away. It is a small, round ball made of metal. You hold it near your neck and push it into the air. You cannot throw it like a toy ball. People do this sport outside on a big field. It is in the Olympic Games. The person who pushes the ball the farthest wins.
Should\n\nA shoulder is the part of your body where your arm meets your top. It is round and can move your arm up, down, and around. You have two of them, one on each side. When you wave hello or throw a ball, it helps you do that. Sometimes people carry a bag on it or give a friend a pat there.
Shoulder\n\nA shoulder is the part of your body where your arm meets your neck. It is round and soft on top, with a hard bone inside. You can move it to wave hello, throw a ball, or give a hug. When you wear a backpack, the straps rest on it. It helps you lift things and reach up high.
Shout\n\nA shout is a very loud sound you make with your voice. It is like a yell or a big call. You open your mouth wide and push air out fast. People shout when they are far away and want someone to hear them. Sometimes people shout when they are happy, like at a game. Sometimes they shout when they are scared or need help. You can shout outside on the playground or at a park.
Shovel\n\nA shovel is a tool that helps you pick up and move loose things. It has a long stick called a handle and a flat, wide metal part at the bottom. You can find it in a garden, a garage, or a sandbox. People use it to scoop up dirt, sand, snow, or small rocks. When you push the flat part under a pile and lift, it carries the stuff to a new spot. A shovel is not the best tool for making deep holes in hard ground, but it works great for moving soft piles.
Show\n\nA show is something you watch for fun. It can be on a TV, a tablet, or a big stage. In a show, people sing, dance, or act out a story. You might see a show at a theater with your family. Some shows have puppets or cartoons that make you laugh.
Shower\n\nA shower is a place where you wash your body with water. It has a part up high that sprays water down on you. You stand up inside it and the water falls like warm rain. People use a shower to get clean every day. You can find a shower in a bathroom at home. It helps wash away dirt and soap.
Shrew\n\nA shrew is a tiny animal that looks like a mouse with a long nose. It has soft fur, small eyes, and a pointy snout. It lives on the ground in many places around the world, like forests and fields. It hunts for seeds, bugs, nuts, and worms to eat. It is very busy and hungry all day, so it eats a lot. Even though it looks like a mouse, it is not one—it is more like a mole.
Shrike\n\nA shrike is a small bird with a strong, hooked beak. It has gray, black, or brown feathers and a dark mask around its eyes. You can find it in open places like fields and bushes in many parts of the world. It hunts bugs, small mice, and lizards. Sometimes it pokes its food onto sharp thorns or twigs to save it for later. This is why some people call it a butcher bird.
Shrimp\n\nA shrimp is a small water animal with a long tail and a hard shell. It has many legs and two long feelers on its head. It lives in the water, near the sand at the bottom. It can swim very fast by flipping its tail. People catch it to eat. They take off the shell and cook the soft tail meat. You might see it in a fish tank or on a dinner plate.
Shrub\n\nA shrub is a small plant with many stems. It is shorter than a tree and has branches that start close to the ground. You can find it in gardens, parks, and sometimes in the woods. People use it to make their yards look pretty. Some shrubs have flowers, and some stay green all year. A bush you see near your house might be a shrub.
Shut\n\nShut means to close something tight. When you shut a door, it is not open anymore. You can also shut a box, a book, or your eyes. It is the opposite of open. When you go to sleep, you shut your eyes. When it is cold outside, you shut the window to keep the warm air in.
Shy\n\nShy is a feeling you get when you are around new people or in a new place. It can make your cheeks feel warm and your voice very small. You might want to hide behind Mom or Dad. Many kids feel shy on the first day of school. It is okay to feel shy. After a little time, the feeling often goes away and you feel brave again.
Shyness\n\nShyness is a feeling you get when you are around new people. It makes you want to hide or be very quiet. Your face might feel hot, and your heart might beat fast. It can happen on the first day of school or at a big party. Many kids feel shy sometimes, and that is okay.
Siamese cat\n\nA Siamese cat is a kind of cat with a special look. It has short, soft fur that is light on its body and dark on its face, ears, paws, and tail. Its eyes are bright blue and shaped like almonds. It comes from a faraway place called Thailand. It loves to be with people and will follow you around the house. It makes loud sounds that can sound like a baby crying. It is very smart and likes to play even when it is grown up. You might see one in a book or at a friend's house.
Siberia\n\nSiberia is a very big piece of land in Russia. It is in the north part of the world, so it is very cold. It has wide, flat fields and big forests. Many people live in cities there, like Novosibirsk. Some people who live there are called Siberian people.
Sibling\n\nA sibling is a brother or a sister. It is a child who has the same mom and dad as you. You can find a sibling at home, in your family. A sibling plays with you, shares toys, and sometimes fights with you. For example, if you have a baby brother, he is your sibling.
Sichuan\n\nSichuan is a big place in China. It has tall mountains, wide rivers, and green forests. Many people live there in busy cities and quiet towns. The food from Sichuan is very spicy and makes your mouth feel hot and tingly. One famous dish is chicken with peanuts. People also enjoy old songs and colorful shows with masks and costumes. A long time ago, a famous poet named Li Bai was born there. You can visit a pretty garden built to remember him.
Sick\n\nSick means your body does not feel good. It can happen when a tiny bug gets inside you. You might feel hot, have a runny nose, or a tummy ache. When you are sick, you stay in bed and rest. Mom or Dad may give you warm soup and a soft blanket. A doctor can help you feel better with medicine. After a few days, you feel strong and happy again.
Sickle\n\nA sickle is a tool for cutting plants. It has a handle and a long, curved blade that is sharp on the inside. Farmers used it long ago to cut wheat and other crops by hand. They would swing it low to the ground to slice the stems. Some sickles have little teeth on the blade, like a saw. Today, big machines do most of the cutting, but you might see a sickle in a picture or a museum.
Sickness\n\nSickness is when your body does not feel good. It can make you feel hot, tired, or achy. You might have a runny nose, a cough, or a sore tummy. When you are sick, you stay in bed and rest. A grown-up may give you soup or medicine to help you feel better. After a few days, the sickness goes away and you can play again.
Side\n\nA side is one part of something. It can be the left part or the right part of a thing. When you look at a box, it has a top, a bottom, and four sides. Your body has two sides too — a left side and a right side. When you draw a square, you make four straight lines, and each line is a side. In a game, two teams play against each other, and each team is one side.
Sidewalk\n\nA sidewalk is a long, flat path next to a street. It is made of hard stone or cement. People walk on it to stay safe from cars and bikes. You can see it in front of houses, stores, and parks. Sometimes kids draw with chalk or ride small toys on it.
Sideways\n\nSideways means moving or facing to the left or right, not straight ahead. It is like when a crab walks on the sand. You can look sideways by turning your head to the side. A car can slide sideways on ice. When you draw a line that goes left to right, it goes sideways.
Sierra Leone\n\nSierra Leone is a country in West Africa. It is next to the big blue ocean. It has green hills, hot sun, and a long rainy time. Many people there eat rice every day. They play football in the streets. It has a big city called Freetown where boats come and go.
Sight\n\nSight is the way you see the world with your eyes. It lets you know what things look like. Light comes into your eye, and a clear part inside sends a picture to the back of your eye. Then a special path takes that picture to your brain. Your brain figures out shapes, colors, and how far away things are. It helps you catch a ball or find your mom in a crowd. When you look at a red apple, your brain tells you it is round, red, and close enough to grab.
Sigmund Freud\n\nSigmund Freud was a doctor who studied how people think and feel. He lived a long time ago and talked to many people about their dreams and worries. He said that our feelings can hide deep inside us, like a secret box. He helped people by listening to them talk. Many doctors today still use some of his ideas.
Sign\n\nA sign is a flat thing with words or pictures on it. It can be made of wood, metal, or paper. You see signs on streets, in stores, and at school. It tells you something, like where to go or what not to do. A stop sign is red and tells cars to wait. A sign with a picture of a fork and spoon shows where to eat.
Sign language\n\nSign language is a way of talking with your hands. It uses hand shapes, arm moves, and face looks to share ideas. Deaf people often use it to talk to each other. They watch the hands and face to understand what someone says. Some hearing people learn it too, so they can talk with deaf friends. There are many different sign languages around the world, just like there are many spoken languages.
Signal\n\nA signal is a way to send a message without words. It can be a light, a sound, or a hand wave. You see a red light on the street, and it tells cars to stop. A bell ringing at school tells you it is time to go inside. When you wave your hand to a friend, that is a signal too.
Sikhism\n\nSikhism is a way of life and a religion. It started a long time ago in a place called Punjab. People who follow it are called Sikhs. They believe in one God who made everything. They go to a special building called a Gurdwara to pray. Inside, everyone sits on the floor to show that all people are equal. They share a free meal called Langar with everyone who comes. Sikhs try to be honest, share with others, and remember God. Many Sikh men wear a turban on their head.
Silent\n\nSilent means no sound at all. It is like when you press your lips together and do not say a word. You can find silent places in a library or when everyone is asleep at night. When a room is silent, you might hear tiny sounds like your own breathing. A silent game is when friends try not to make any noise. It can feel calm and peaceful.
Silent movie\n\nA silent movie is a movie with no talking or sound. It shows moving pictures on a big screen, but you cannot hear the people speak. Long ago, cameras could not record sound, so all movies were silent. When people watched it, a piano player often played music in the room to make it feel happy or scary. Sometimes words would pop up on the screen to tell you what the people were saying. A famous silent movie star was Charlie Chaplin. He wore a funny hat and a small mustache and made people laugh without saying a word.
Silicon\n\nSilicon is a hard, gray, shiny material. It looks like a dark rock or metal. You can find it in sand and rocks all over the Earth. People use it to make glass, like in windows and bottles. It is also used inside computers and phones to help them work. Many things we use every day have silicon in them.
Silicon Valley\n\nSilicon Valley is a place in California where people make computers and other smart machines. It has many big buildings where grown-ups work on new ideas. Long ago, it was full of fruit trees, but now it is full of tech companies. You can see it on a map near a big bay. Many things you use, like tablets and phones, were thought up there.
Silk\n\nSilk is a soft, shiny thread made by a tiny worm. It comes from the little house the worm spins around itself, called a cocoon. People take the thread and weave it into smooth cloth. They use it to make pretty dresses, soft scarves, and shiny ribbons. Long ago, people even used silk to make big cloths that float down from the sky. You might see silk on a fancy pillow or in a bright hair bow.
Silk Road\n\nThe Silk Road was a long, long path that people used to carry things from one faraway place to another. It was not one road, but many roads that went across big lands and over water. People walked on it with camels, horses, and boats. They brought silk from China to places far away. Silk is a soft, shiny cloth that only China could make back then. They also brought other things like spices, pretty stones, and new ideas. The Silk Road helped people from different lands meet and share stories and food. It made many cities rich and busy.
Silkworm\n\nA silkworm is a small, soft caterpillar. It is the baby form of a moth. It eats only leaves from a mulberry tree. It makes a long, thin thread of silk and wraps it around its body to form a little house called a cocoon. People use the silk to make soft and shiny clothes. The silkworm lives with people and is not found in the wild anymore.
Silly\n\nSilly is a feeling when you want to laugh and be goofy. It makes you smile big and do funny things like make a silly face or wiggle your arms. You might feel silly when you play with friends or wear a hat that is too big. It is a happy, light feeling that makes you giggle. Sometimes you act silly just to make someone else laugh too.
Silo\n\nA silo is a tall round building on a farm. It looks like a big can with a pointy or round top. Farmers put cut-up green plants inside it to keep them wet and fresh. The plants turn into soft food that cows like to eat. In winter, when grass does not grow, the farmer opens a door on the side and takes the food out. A machine helps bring it down so the farmer does not have to climb up high.
Silver\n\nSilver is a shiny, white-gray metal. It is soft and can be bent or hammered into thin sheets. People find it in rocks deep under the ground, often with other metals like copper or gold. It is used to make pretty things like rings and necklaces. Long ago, people used it as money to buy food and toys. It is also in some tools we use every day, like forks and spoons. Silver can keep food and water clean because it stops tiny bugs from growing.
Similar\n\nSimilar means two things are almost the same but not exactly. It is like when you have two red apples, but one is bigger and one is smaller. You can find similar things everywhere, like two socks that are both blue but have different stripes. When you draw a picture, it might look similar to your friend's drawing. A dog and a wolf are similar because they both have four legs and fur.
Simple\n\nSimple means something is easy to do or understand. It has no hard parts or tricky steps. You can find simple things all around you, like a plain circle or a short song. When a job is simple, you can finish it fast without help. Tying your shoes is simple once you learn how.
Simple machine\n\nA simple machine is a tool that makes work easier. It changes how hard you push or pull, or the way you move something. There are six kinds of simple machines. One is a lever, like a seesaw at the playground. Another is a wheel and axle, like on a toy car. A pulley is a wheel with a rope, like on a flagpole. An inclined plane is a ramp, like a slide. A wedge is a sharp tool, like a knife. A screw is a twisty nail that holds things together. People use simple machines every day to lift, cut, or move things.
Sinai Peninsula\n\nThe Sinai Peninsula is a big piece of land shaped like a triangle. It has water on two sides: a big blue sea to the north and a warm sea to the south. It is part of Egypt but sits between two big lands called Africa and Asia. Many people visit it to see pretty fish and colorful rocks under the water. A famous tall mountain there is a holy place for some people.
Since\n\nSince is a word that tells us about time. It means from a time in the past until now. You might hear it in a sentence like, "I have been awake since morning." It helps us know when something started. It is a small word, but it does a big job.
Sing\n\nSing is when you make music with your voice. It sounds like a happy tune or a soft lullaby. You can sing in the car, in the bath, or at school with friends. People sing to feel good or to share a story. A bird also sings when it chirps in the morning.
Singapore\n\nSingapore is a small island country in Asia. It is very clean and has many tall buildings and green parks. People call it a Garden City because there are plants and trees everywhere. Many people live there, and they come from different places like China, Malaysia, and India. They speak English and other languages. Singapore is known for being safe and having strict rules.
Singer\n\nA singer is a person who makes music with their voice. They can sing songs that are happy, sad, or fun to dance to. You might see a singer on a stage, on TV, or in a movie. Some singers sing alone, and some sing with a group. When you hear a song on the radio, that is a singer sharing their voice. You can be a singer too when you sing your favorite song.
Singing\n\nSinging is making music with your voice. It makes your voice go high and low to make a tune, which is called a song. You can sing anywhere—in the car, at school, or in the shower. People sing to feel happy, to tell a story, or to share a song with friends. Many birds also sing, like the little robin outside your window. A group of people singing together is called a choir.
Single\n\nSingle means one. It is a word we use when there is only one thing, not two or more. You might see a single apple on a plate, or a single bird in a tree. When you hold up one finger, that is a single finger. It is the opposite of a pair or a group.
Sinhala language\n\nSinhala is a way people talk and write. It is used by many people on an island called Sri Lanka. It has its own pretty letters that look like little drawings. People speak it at home, at school, and with friends. Some words in Sinhala go in a different order than in English. For example, "I go home" becomes "I home go."
Sink\n\nA sink is a bowl that holds water for washing. It has one or two taps where water comes out. You find it in a kitchen or a bathroom at home. People use it to wash hands, cups, or food. When you pull a plug or push a button, the water goes down a hole called a drain.
Sioux\n\nThe Sioux are a group of Native American people. They live in the middle part of the United States. Long ago, they met people who came from Europe. Today, they have two main groups called the Dakota and the Lakota. They have their own ways of talking, singing, and dancing. Some Sioux live on special lands called reservations. They tell stories and make beautiful art with beads and feathers.
Sip\n\nA sip is a tiny drink. It is when you take just a little bit of water, juice, or milk into your mouth. You do not gulp or swallow a lot at once. You can sip from a cup, a straw, or a spoon. When you have hot cocoa, you sip it slowly so you do not burn your tongue. A sip is a good way to taste something new.
Siren\n\nA siren is a made-up creature from old Greek stories. It looks like a woman with a bird body, but today many pictures show it as a mermaid with a fish tail. It lives on an island with big rocks in the sea. It sings a very pretty song that makes sailors want to come close. When the sailors sail near, their boats hit the rocks and break. In one old story, a man named Odysseus put soft wax in his sailors' ears so they could not hear the song. He tied himself to the boat so he could not jump in the water. That way, they all got past the island safely.
Sirius\n\nSirius is a very bright star in the night sky. It looks like a tiny, shiny dot that twinkles. You can see it when the sky is dark and clear. It is one of the closest stars to Earth. Long ago, people in Egypt watched it to know when the river would rise. Some people call it the Dog Star because it sits in a star picture that looks like a big dog. On hot summer days, people say those are the dog days because of this star.
Sister\n\nA sister is a girl who has the same mom and dad as you. She can be older or younger than you. You live in the same house or visit each other often. She might play with you, share toys, or sometimes argue. A sister can be a friend who knows you very well.
Sit\n\nSit is when you bend your legs and put your bottom on a chair, the floor, or a soft cushion. It is a way to rest your body when you are tired. You can sit at a table to eat, draw, or play with toys. A dog can sit when you tell it to, and a cat sits to clean its fur. In school, children sit on a rug to listen to a story.
Site\n\nA site is a place where something is or where something happens. It can be a spot on the ground, like where you build a sandcastle. You might see a site when people are making a new house or a new road. A site can be big or small, and it is a place you can point to with your finger.
Situation\n\nA situation is what is happening right now. It can be a happy time, like a birthday party, or a sad time, like when a toy breaks. You find a situation everywhere—at home, at school, or on the playground. When you see a friend fall down, that is a situation where you can help. It is just a word for the way things are at one moment.
Situation comedy\n\nA situation comedy is a funny TV show. It has the same people in the same place every time. You might see them in a house, a school, or a store. They make you laugh with silly problems and jokes. Many families watch it together after dinner.
Six\n\nSix is a number. It comes after five and before seven. You can count six things, like six apples or six blocks. It looks like a circle with a little tail at the bottom. When you roll a dice, you might see six dots on one side. Many children learn to count to six when they are very young.
Sixteen\n\nSixteen is a number that comes after fifteen. It is one more than fifteen and one less than seventeen. You can count to it on your fingers and toes, but you will need one extra finger from a friend. When you see the number 16, it has a one and a six next to each other. Some kids turn sixteen and get a big party with cake and candles.
Sixty\n\nSixty is a number. It comes after fifty-nine and before sixty-one. It is six groups of ten. You can see it on a clock when the big hand points to the twelve and the little hand points to the six. That means one hour has passed. People also use it to count things like minutes or seconds.
Size\n\nSize is how big or small something is. It can be tiny like a bug or huge like a house. You can see size when you look at two things next to each other. One might be bigger and one might be smaller. When you put on a shirt, you pick a size that fits your body. Shoes also come in different sizes for your feet.
Skate (fish)\n\nA skate is a flat fish that lives in the ocean. It has a body shaped like a kite, with wide fins on each side. It swims near the sandy bottom of the sea. A skate does not have a sharp sting on its tail, but it may have small bumps. It lays eggs in a hard case that people sometimes call a mermaid's purse.
Skateboarding\n\nSkateboarding is riding on a small board with wheels. It has a flat wooden board and four wheels underneath. You can see people doing it at a skate park or on a smooth sidewalk. A person stands on the board and pushes with one foot to move. Some people jump and spin the board in the air. It is important to wear a helmet and pads so you do not get hurt. Many kids and grown-ups like skateboarding for fun.
Skeleton\n\nA skeleton is the hard frame inside your body. It is made of many bones that fit together. It holds up your skin and muscles so you are not flat like a pancake. It also keeps soft parts like your brain, heart, and lungs safe. Your head has a round bone called the skull. Your back has a long line of small bones that help you bend and twist. Your chest has curved bones like a cage around your heart. Your arms and legs have long bones that let you run, jump, and play. You can feel some bones under your skin, like the hard bumps on your wrist or your knee.
Skepticism\n\nSkepticism is a way of thinking where you ask questions and do not believe things right away. It is like a little voice in your head that says, "Is that really true?" When someone tells you a story, you stop and think before you say yes or no. You look for clues and proof, like a detective. For example, if a friend says there is a dragon in the backyard, you might go look first. That is using skepticism. It helps people not get tricked by tall tales.
Ski jumping\n\nSki jumping is a sport where a person on skis slides down a big snowy hill and flies through the air. It happens in winter when there is lots of snow. The skier starts at the top of a tall ramp, goes very fast, and then jumps off the end. While in the air, they lean forward and try to stay up as long as they can. They land on a steep hill far below. People who watch clap for the longest and prettiest jumps. You can see it on TV during the Winter Games.
Skiing\n\nSkiing is a fun way to slide over snow. It uses two long, flat sticks called skis that you wear on your feet. You also wear special boots that click into the skis. There are two main kinds. In downhill skiing, you go down a snowy hill or mountain. The paths have colors to show how hard they are: green is easy, blue is a little hard, and black is very hard. In cross country skiing, you move across flat or bumpy snow, often through quiet woods. Some people race and try to go very fast between colored sticks. Many families go skiing together when it is cold and snowy outside.
Skill\n\nA skill is something you learn to do well. It can be moving your body, like jumping rope or kicking a ball. It can also be thinking, like counting numbers or remembering a song. You get better at it by trying many times. When you first try, it is hard and you make mistakes. After lots of practice, it feels easy and you do not have to think so hard. Some skills are for playing with friends, like taking turns. Other skills are for school, like writing your name. A grown-up or a teacher can show you how and help you get better.
Skin\n\nSkin is the soft cover all over your body. It wraps around you from head to toe. It feels smooth in some places and a little bumpy in others. You can see it on your arms, legs, and tummy. It keeps bad germs out so you stay healthy. It also helps you feel things like a warm hug or a cold ice cube. When you take a bath, you wash your skin to keep it clean.
Skink\n\nA skink is a small animal with smooth, shiny skin. It has tiny legs and a short neck, so it looks a little like a snake. It lives in warm places and likes to dig in the dirt. It hides under rocks or leaves to stay safe. It eats bugs, worms, and sometimes soft fruit. If a bigger animal grabs its tail, the tail can fall off and grow back later. You might see one in a garden or park on a sunny day.
Skip\n\nTo skip is to move with little jumps. It is like a happy walk where you hop from one foot to the other. You can see children skip on the playground or on the sidewalk. It is a fun way to go fast without running. When you skip, your feet leave the ground one at a time, and your arms swing up and down.
Skirt\n\nA skirt is a piece of clothing that hangs down from the waist. It is open at the bottom and covers the legs. You can see skirts in many places like school, parties, or at home. People wear it to look nice or feel cool. A skirt can be long or short, and it can have many colors and patterns. Some skirts are for girls, and some are for boys in different parts of the world.
Skull\n\nA skull is the hard bone that makes up your head. It is round and has holes for your eyes, nose, and mouth. You can feel it under your skin on top of your head. It keeps your brain safe inside, like a strong helmet. It also holds your teeth in place. Without it, your face would not have its shape.
Skunk\n\nA skunk is a small animal with black fur and a white stripe on its back. It has a big, fluffy tail and short legs. It lives in woods and fields, and sometimes near houses. It can make a very stinky spray from under its tail to scare away big animals that might hurt it. It eats berries, bugs, and small animals like worms. Some people see a skunk at night near trash cans looking for food.
Sky\n\nThe sky is the big open space above us. It looks blue on a sunny day. At night, it turns dark blue or black. You can see the Sun, the Moon, and stars in it. Sometimes you see clouds, rain, or a rainbow. Birds and airplanes fly across it. When the Sun goes down, it can turn orange, pink, or red.
Skyscraper\n\nA skyscraper is a very tall building. It has many floors, one on top of the other. You can see it in big cities where many people work and live. It is so tall that it looks like it touches the sky. People use it for offices, shops, and sometimes homes. A famous one is the Empire State Building in New York City.
Slalom skiing\n\nSlalom skiing is a kind of skiing race. It happens on a snowy hill with many poles stuck in the snow. The skier must go left and right around the poles very fast. The poles are close together, so the turns are quick and small. You can see it on TV during the Winter Games. People cheer when the skier goes through the last pole and crosses the finish line.
Slang\n\nSlang is a kind of talking that is not the usual way. It is words that a group of friends make up and use together. You hear it on the playground or at home with your family. It can be a short way to say something, like saying 'wassup' instead of 'how are you'. It can also be a fun new word for an old thing. Over time, some slang words become words that everyone uses.
Slate\n\nSlate is a kind of flat, gray stone. It comes from deep under the ground, where mud gets squeezed and hot for a very long time. It splits into thin, smooth sheets. People use it to make roofs on houses so rain does not get inside. It is also used for floors, chalkboards in schools, and big flat tables for games. You might see it on an old building or a path in a garden.
Slave\n\nA slave is a person who is not free. He must work for another person and cannot leave. He does not get paid for his work. Long ago, some people were taken from their homes and made into slaves. Today, being a slave is wrong and against the law everywhere.
Slavic languages\n\nSlavic languages are a group of ways people talk. They are used in many places like Russia, Poland, and the Czech Republic. Some of them use letters that look like the ones in English. Others use letters that look different, with shapes like funny hats and hooks. If you hear someone say "da" for yes, they might be using one of these languages.
Slavs\n\nSlavs are a big group of people. They live in many countries in the middle and east part of Europe. Some also live in Asia. They speak languages that sound a lot like each other. For example, a Polish person and a Slovak person can often understand each other. Many Slavs live in Russia, Poland, and Ukraine. They have their own songs, stories, and foods that they share with their families.
Sled\n\nA sled is a flat thing you sit on to slide over snow or ice. It has no wheels, just smooth runners on the bottom. You can find it in places where it is cold and snowy, like a hill or a snowy park. People push it down a hill and ride it for fun. Some sleds are pulled by dogs or grown-ups. You might see one in a winter story or at a friend's house when it snows.
Sleep\n\nSleep is a time when your body and brain rest. It happens when you close your eyes and lie still for many hours. Most people sleep at night in a soft bed with a pillow and a blanket. While you sleep, your body grows and gets strong again. Your brain also sorts out things you learned during the day. Sometimes you see pictures and stories in your head called dreams. If you do not sleep enough, you feel tired and grumpy the next day. A short sleep in the afternoon is called a nap. Many animals sleep too, like cats and dogs.
Sleepy\n\nSleepy is a feeling you get when your body wants to rest. It makes your eyes feel heavy and your head want to lie down. You feel sleepy at night when it is dark outside. Sometimes you feel sleepy after a big lunch or a long car ride. When you are sleepy, you yawn and stretch your arms. The best way to fix it is to take a nap or go to bed.
Sleeve\n\nA sleeve is the part of a shirt or jacket that covers your arm. It can be long or short. Some sleeves have buttons at the end. You put your arm through it when you get dressed. It keeps your arm warm on a cold day.
Slice\n\nA slice is a thin, flat piece cut from something bigger. It can be a piece of bread, cake, cheese, or fruit. You make a slice by using a knife and moving it back and forth. A slice is often the right size to hold in your hand or put on a plate. At a birthday party, you might get a slice of cake with frosting on top.
Slide\n\nA slide is a fun thing you find at a playground. It has a ladder to climb up and a long, smooth part that goes down. You sit at the top, push off, and whoosh down to the bottom. It can be made of hard plastic or shiny metal. Some slides are straight, and some are twisty. You can find it next to swings and a sandbox. Kids love going down a slide again and again.
Slim\n\nSlim means thin or not wide. A slim person has a body that is not big around. You might see a slim tree with a skinny trunk. Some clothes are made in a slim size so they fit close to the body. A slim book has only a few pages. It is the opposite of thick or fat.
Slime mould\n\nA slime mould is a tiny living thing that moves very slowly. It looks like a soft, wet blob of jelly. You can find it on the forest floor, on dead trees, or in damp, shady places. It crawls around to find tiny bits of food to eat. When it is ready to make new slime moulds, it sends out tiny dust-like specks called spores. These specks float away and grow into new blobs.
Slimy\n\nSlimy means something feels wet and slippery, like a fish or a snail. It can be gooey and sticky, and it might make your hands feel funny. You can find slimy things in a pond, like a frog or wet mud. Some kids like to play with slimy stuff, like homemade slime that stretches and squishes. A banana peel can feel slimy after it sits out too long.
Sling (weapon)\n\nA sling is a simple tool for throwing a stone very far. It has a small pocket in the middle and two long strings. You put a stone in the pocket, hold both strings, and spin it around fast. When you let go of one string, the stone flies out. Long ago, people used it to hunt animals or fight. A boy named David used a sling to stop a big giant. You can still see a sling in old storybooks.
Slingshot\n\nA slingshot is a small toy that can throw a stone very far. It has a Y-shaped stick and a stretchy rubber band. You put a small stone in the rubber band, pull it back, and let go. The stone flies fast through the air. You can find it in a toy store or make one at home with a stick and a rubber band. Many children use it to hit a can or a target in the yard. Always be careful and never aim at a person or an animal.
Slip\n\nA slip is when your foot slides and you almost fall. It happens on wet floors, ice, or a banana peel. When you slip, your body moves fast and you wave your arms to stay up. It can feel scary for a moment. After a slip, you might laugh if you did not get hurt.
Slippery\n\nSlippery means something is very smooth and hard to hold or walk on. It feels like it has no grip. You find slippery things on a wet floor, on ice, or on a banana peel. When something is slippery, it can make you slide or fall down. A bar of soap in the bath is slippery, so you must hold it tight.
Sloth\n\nA sloth is a slow animal that lives in trees. It has long arms, long claws, and soft brown or gray fur. It hangs upside down from branches most of the time. It sleeps a lot during the day and wakes up at night. It eats leaves and flowers, and it moves very, very slowly. When it is on the ground, it crawls in a funny way. But it can swim well if there is water. Its name means slow.
Slovakia\n\nSlovakia is a country in the middle of Europe. It has no sea next to it, only land. It has tall mountains in the north and flat lands in the south. The biggest city is Bratislava. People there use money called the Euro. Many people visit to see old castles and green hills.
Slovenia\n\nSlovenia is a small country in the middle of Europe. It has green hills, tall mountains, and a little bit of sea. The biggest city is called Ljubljana. People there speak a language called Slovenian. They make things like cars and shiny metal to sell to other places. Long ago, different groups of people lived there, and later it was part of a bigger country. Now it is its own country and works with friends in Europe.
Slow\n\nSlow means something takes a long time to move or happen. It is the opposite of fast. A turtle walks slow, and a snail moves even slower. When you walk slow, you take small steps and do not hurry. A slow song has a gentle beat that feels calm. Sometimes being slow is good, like when you eat your food carefully or look at a pretty flower for a long time.
Slow loris\n\nA slow loris is a small furry animal that moves very slowly. It has big round eyes, soft brown or gray fur, and tiny hands that can hold on tight. It lives in trees in warm forests far away in Asia. It comes out at night to look for food like fruit, tree sap, and bugs. It moves one hand at a time and never jumps. A slow loris is quiet and shy, and it hides in the leaves during the day.
Slowly\n\nSlowly means doing something with no rush. It is the opposite of fast. When you walk slowly, you take small steps and move like a turtle. When you talk slowly, you say each word with care. A snail moves slowly on the ground. Sometimes it is good to go slowly so you do not trip or spill your drink.
Small\n\nSmall means something is not big. It takes up very little space. A tiny bug on a leaf is small. A baby's shoe is small. A little seed you plant in the ground is small. You can hold something small in your hand. A pebble on the path is small. A button on your shirt is small. When you look at a big dog and a puppy, the puppy is the small one.
Small intestine\n\nThe small intestine is a long tube inside your belly. It is very thin, like a long, soft straw. It sits between your stomach and a bigger tube called the large intestine. After food leaves your stomach, it goes into the small intestine. There, your body takes out all the good things from the food, like vitamins and energy, to help you grow and play. It is very long—longer than a grown-up is tall—but it is folded up inside you so it fits.
Smallpox\n\nSmallpox is a sickness that makes people very sick. It causes red bumps all over the skin. Long ago, many people got it, but now it is gone. Doctors used a special shot to stop it. No one gets smallpox anymore.
Smart\n\nA smart is a person who can learn things fast. It means you can figure out puzzles, remember stories, and answer hard questions. You might see a smart friend at school who helps the teacher. It is not just about books—you can be smart at building with blocks, drawing, or being kind. When you try your best and keep thinking, you are being smart too.
Smartphone\n\nA smartphone is a small phone that works like a computer. It has a flat screen you can touch with your finger. You can find it in many people's pockets or bags. It lets you call your friends, take pictures, and play games. You might see your mom or dad use one to send a message or look at a map.
Smash\n\nSmash is when something breaks into many small pieces. It can happen when you drop a glass cup on the floor. It makes a loud, sudden noise. You might see a smash when a ball hits a window too hard. After a smash, there are tiny bits all over the place. It is not safe to touch those bits with bare hands.
Smell\n\nSmell is something your nose does. It lets you know what things are like without touching them. You find smells everywhere—in the kitchen, outside, or near flowers. A smell can be nice, like cookies baking, or yucky, like old socks. Your nose helps you enjoy food and warns you if something is bad.
Smelting\n\nSmelting is a way to get metal from a rock called ore. It uses very hot fire to melt the rock. The metal comes out as a hot, shiny liquid. People pour it into shapes and let it cool. This is how we get iron for pots, copper for pipes, and other metals we use every day. Long ago, people learned to smelt and made tools and swords.
Smi\n\nThe Smi are a group of people who live in the far north of Europe. They have their own ways of talking, dressing, and living. Many Smi take care of reindeer, big animals with antlers that live in cold places. They move with the reindeer to find food in summer and winter. A long time ago, some people tried to make the Smi stop using their own words and ways, but today the Smi keep their culture alive.
Smile\n\nA smile is a happy look on a face. It happens when the corners of the mouth go up. You can see a smile when someone is glad or having fun. People smile when they see a friend, get a hug, or hear a funny joke. A smile can make other people feel warm and happy too.
Smith\n\nA smith is a person who works with metal. He uses a hot fire to make the metal soft, then hits it with a hammer to shape it. You might see a smith in an old story or at a fair, making things like horseshoes or tools. He wears a heavy apron to stay safe from sparks.
Smoke\n\nSmoke is a gray or black cloud that rises from a fire. It is made of tiny bits of ash and gas that float in the air. You can see it coming from a candle, a campfire, or a chimney. It can make your eyes sting and make you cough if you breathe it in. Firefighters wear masks to stay safe from it. When you see a lot of it, it means something is burning.
Smoking\n\nSmoking is when a person breathes in smoke from a burning stick called a cigarette. It makes the air smell strong and can make a room look cloudy. Some grown-ups do it outside or in special places. It is not good for the body and can make a person cough. You might see someone smoking on the street or in a movie.
Smoking (cooking)\n\nSmoking is a way to cook food with smoke from a fire. It is used for meat and fish. The smoke makes the food taste strong and yummy. It also helps the food stay good for a longer time. You might see smoked meat at a store or at a picnic. It often looks brown on the outside.
Smoky\n\nSmoky means something has a lot of smoke around it. It looks gray or white and can be hard to see through. You might find a smoky room if someone forgot food on the stove. It can make your eyes sting and make you cough. A campfire can make the air smoky, and the smell sticks to your clothes.
Smooth\n\nSmooth means something feels flat and soft, with no bumps. It is the opposite of rough. You can find smooth things all around you. A stone by the river can be smooth after water rubs it for a long time. A baby's cheek feels smooth when you touch it. Ice cream is smooth when it melts on your tongue. When you slide your hand over a smooth table, your hand moves easily.
SMS\n\nSMS is a way to send short written notes from one phone to another. It is also called a text message. You type words on your phone screen and press send. Then the words pop up on your friend’s phone. It is good when you need to be quiet or share a quick secret. Some phone plans let you send as many as you want.
Snack\n\nA snack is a little bit of food you eat when you are not having a big meal. It can be something crunchy like chips, or sweet like candy, or soft like a muffin. You might eat it in the afternoon after lunch or before dinner. It helps when your tummy feels a little hungry. Some snacks are good for you, like a banana or an apple. Other snacks are just for fun, like a cookie or some popcorn.
Snail\n\nA snail is a small, soft animal that carries a hard shell on its back. It has a long, squishy body and two tiny feelers on its head. You can find it in gardens, parks, or on wet sidewalks after rain. It moves very slowly by sliding on a flat, wet foot. When it gets scared, it pulls its whole body inside the shell to hide. Some snails live in water, and some live on land. You might see a shiny, silvery trail it leaves behind as it moves.
Snake\n\nA snake is a long animal with no legs. It has smooth, shiny skin covered in scales. Snakes live in many places, like forests, water, and hot sandy deserts. It moves by wiggling its body side to side. A snake eats other animals and swallows them whole. Some snakes have a bite that can hurt, but many are safe.
Snap\n\nA snap is a quick, sharp sound you make with your fingers. You press your thumb and middle finger together hard, then slide them apart fast. It makes a little click noise. People snap to keep time with music or to get someone's attention. You can try it yourself—just push your fingers and let go!
Sneeze\n\nA sneeze is a sudden burst of air from your nose and mouth. It happens when something tickles the inside of your nose. It makes a loud sound like "achoo!" and your eyes close for a moment. You cannot stop a sneeze once it starts. It helps push out tiny things that should not be in your nose, like dust. After you sneeze, it is kind to say "excuse me."
Sniff\n\nSniff is when you pull air into your nose to smell something. It is a quick, short breath through the nose. You do it when you want to know what something smells like. For example, you might sniff a flower to smell its sweet scent. A dog sniffs the ground to find a treat. When you have a cold, your nose may be stuffy and you cannot sniff well.
Snooker\n\nSnooker is a game played on a big green table. It has six holes, one in each corner and one in the middle of each long side. Two people play it with long, thin sticks. They hit a white ball to push other balls into the holes. There are 15 red balls and six balls of other colors. Each color gives a different number of points. You must hit a red ball first, then a color, then a red again. The person with the most points wins. You can see snooker on TV in some countries.
Snore\n\nA snore is a loud sound a person makes when they sleep. It comes from the nose or mouth. The sound can be soft like a kitten or loud like a truck. Some people snore when they are very tired. You might hear it if you sleep near someone who snores.
Snow\n\nSnow is frozen water that falls from the sky. It looks like tiny white stars or soft feathers. It comes from clouds when the air is very cold. Snow covers the ground like a white blanket. Children play in it by making snowballs and snowmen. People also slide down hills on sleds. Big trucks called snow plows push it off roads so cars can drive safely.
Snow leopard\n\nA snow leopard is a big wild cat that lives in cold, high mountains. It has thick, soft fur that is gray and white with dark spots. Its tail is very long and fluffy, and it uses it to stay warm like a blanket. It walks on big, furry feet that help it not sink into the snow. It hunts animals like mountain sheep and goats, and it can eat one sheep for two weeks. It lives alone and hides very well among the rocks. You might see a snow leopard in a zoo or in a picture book about animals.
Snowball\n\nA snowball is a round ball made of snow. It is white, cold, and soft. You make it by scooping up snow with your hands and pressing it together. People throw snowballs at each other in a fun game. You can see snowballs in winter when there is snow on the ground.
Snowboarding\n\nSnowboarding is a fun sport on snow. It uses a flat board that you stand on with both feet. The board slides down a snowy hill, like surfing on snow. You wear warm clothes, special boots, and a helmet to stay safe. Some people do jumps and tricks on the board. You can see snowboarding on big mountains or on TV during the winter games.
Snowman\n\nA snowman is a person made of snow. It has a big round body, a smaller round head, and a carrot for a nose. You can build it outside on a cold winter day when there is snow on the ground. People use sticks for arms, stones for eyes, and a scarf to keep it warm. It melts away when the sun comes out and the air gets warm.
Snowy\n\nSnowy means covered with snow. It looks white and soft, like a big blanket on the ground. You see snowy places in winter when it is very cold outside. Snowy hills are fun for sliding down on a sled. A snowy day is a good time to build a snowman with a carrot nose.
So\n\nSo is a small word we use to join ideas together. It helps us say why something happens. For example, "It is cold, so I wear a coat." You hear it in stories and when people talk. It makes sentences flow like a bridge.
So Francisco River\n\nThe So Francisco River is a very long river in Brazil. It is a big, winding line of water that flows through the land. You can find it in South America, far away from here. It gives water to many towns and farms along its sides. People use it to travel by boat and to catch fish. It is so important that some call it the river that brings different parts of the country together.
So Paulo\n\nSo Paulo is a very big city in the country of Brazil. It has many tall buildings, busy streets, and lots of people. You can find it in South America, far from the beach. Many people live there, and they come from different places around the world. It has big parks, shops, and places to play soccer. Some people say it is too crowded and the air can be dirty. But it is an important city where many things happen.
So Tom and Prncipe\n\nSo Tom and Prncipe is a small country made of two big islands. It sits in the warm ocean near Africa. The islands have green hills and dark sand from old volcanoes. Many people there grow cocoa beans to make chocolate. They also catch fish in the sea. The main town is called So Tom, and people speak Portuguese there.
Soap\n\nSoap is a slippery thing that helps you get clean. It can be a solid bar or a soft liquid. You find it near a sink, in a bathroom, or in a kitchen. When you rub it with water, it makes bubbles and foam. The bubbles lift dirt and germs off your skin. Then you rinse with water and the dirt goes away. Soap is made from fat and a special helper called lye. People have used soap for a very long time to wash hands, faces, and clothes.
Soap opera\n\nA soap opera is a story show on TV or radio. It tells a long story that goes on for many days, weeks, or even years. Each day, you see a new part of the story. It often shows families and friends talking, laughing, and sometimes crying. People watch it in the afternoon or evening. Some shows are about a street, a town, or a group of people who live near each other.
Soapy\n\nSoapy means full of soap or like soap. It feels slippery and wet when you touch it. You see soapy water in the sink when you wash your hands. It makes lots of tiny white bubbles that pop when you poke them. A soapy sponge helps clean dirty dishes.
Soccer\n\nSoccer is a game with a round ball. It is played by two teams on a big green field. Each team tries to kick the ball into the other team's net to score a point. You can see kids playing it at a park or on a school field. Many people love to watch it on TV.
Social\n\nSocial means being with other people. It is when you talk, play, or share with friends. You are social at school when you sit with your class and sing songs. At the park, you are social when you take turns on the slide. Being social makes people feel happy and not alone.
Social Class\n\nSocial class is a way to group people by how much money they have. It can also be about the kind of job someone does. Some people have a lot of money and live in big houses. Others have less money and live in smaller homes. Where you live and what your parents do can show your social class. It is not about being good or bad, just different.
Social equality\n\nSocial equality means everyone is treated the same and gets a fair chance. It is like when all kids in class get a turn on the swing. No one is left out because of how they look or where they come from. It helps people feel safe and happy together. When rules are fair for everyone, that is social equality.
Social movement\n\nA social movement is when many people come together to change something. They work as a group because they want to make things better or fairer. You might see them holding signs and walking in the street. They talk about things like how people are treated or rules that should be different. Sometimes they ask leaders to make new rules. It is like when you and your friends all ask for the same snack at school.
Social network\n\nA social network is a group of people who know each other. It is like a big web of friends and family. You can find it in your town, at school, or at a park. People in it talk, play, and help each other. For example, your class at school is a small social network. When someone is sad, others in the network cheer them up.
Social network service\n\nA social network service is a place on the computer or phone where people talk and share. It lets you send words and pictures to friends who are far away. You can also see what your friends are doing and share fun things you like. Many people use it every day to stay close to friends and family. Some of these places are called Facebook and Twitter. It is like a big playground where everyone can play together, even if they are not in the same room.
Social order\n\nSocial order is the way people live together without fighting. It means everyone follows the same rules, like waiting in line or not taking someone else's toy. When there is social order, the world feels safe and calm. You see it at school when kids listen to the teacher and take turns on the slide. At home, it is when your family eats dinner together and helps clean up. Without it, things would be messy and scary.
Social Science\n\nSocial science is about how people live together. It looks at how we talk, play, and help each other. You can see it at school when friends share toys or take turns. It also looks at big groups like towns and cities. People who study social science learn why we have rules and how we make choices.
Social sciences\n\nSocial sciences are ways people study how we live together. It looks at how we talk, play, work, and help each other. People who study it ask many questions and watch what we do. They might ask you what you like to eat or who your friends are. They learn about families, schools, and towns. It helps us understand why people act the way they do.
Social work\n\nSocial work is a job where people help others who are having a hard time. A social worker is a kind helper who listens and finds ways to make life better. They work in places like schools, hospitals, and offices. They help people who do not have a home, enough food, or someone to care for them. They also help kids and families stay safe and happy. It is a job that needs a big heart and a lot of patience.
Socialism\n\nSocialism is a way of sharing things so everyone gets what they need. It means that big things like farms, factories, and trains belong to all the people, not just one person. In this system, workers run the places where they work together. They share the money they make so no one is too rich or too poor. For example, a bakery in socialism would be owned by the bakers, and they would all decide how to share the bread and the coins.
Society\n\nSociety is all the people living and working together. It is like a big team where everyone helps each other. You see it in your town, your school, and your family. People in a society share rules so everyone stays safe and happy. They also share food, toys, and stories. When many people work as one group, they can do big things that one person cannot do alone.
Sociology\n\nSociology is the study of how people live together. It looks at how we make friends, families, and big groups like schools or towns. It helps us see why people act the way they do when they are with others. You can find it in books and in the way people talk and play. It is like a big map of how we all fit together.
Sock\n\nA sock is a soft piece of clothing you wear on your foot. It covers your toes, your heel, and your ankle. Some socks go all the way up to your knee. It is made from soft things like cotton or wool. It soaks up sweat and keeps your foot warm and dry. You can find socks in many colors, like white, black, or blue. Some socks have fun shapes or stripes on them. You put on a sock before you put on your shoe. It helps your foot feel cozy all day long.
Socrates\n\nSocrates was a man who lived a long, long time ago. He asked many questions to help people think. He did not write books, but his friends wrote down what he said. He walked around the city and talked to everyone. He wanted to know what is good and what is true. People still remember him today.
Soda\n\nSoda is a sweet drink with bubbles. It comes in a can or a bottle. You can find it at a store or a party. People drink it when they are thirsty or with a meal. It can taste like orange, grape, or cola. The bubbles tickle your nose when you sip it.
Sofa\n\nA sofa is a big, soft seat for two or more people. It has a long cushion, a back to lean on, and two arms on the sides. You can find it in a living room or a family room at home. People sit on it to rest, read a book, or watch TV. Sometimes a sofa can open up into a bed for sleeping. It is a cozy spot for the whole family to sit together.
Sofia\n\nSofia is a big city where many people live. It is the most important city in a country called Bulgaria. It has old buildings, big schools, and a pretty garden with water that falls down. People work there and go to shows. It sits on a hill, high up, so the air feels cool.
Soft\n\nSoft means something is easy to push in or bend. It feels nice when you touch it, like a pillow or a stuffed bear. You can find soft things in your bed, like blankets and sheets. A soft toy is good to hug when you go to sleep. Soft things do not hurt when you bump into them.
Soft drink\n\nA soft drink is a sweet, bubbly drink. It comes in a can or a bottle. You can find it at a store, a party, or a fast-food place. It has tiny bubbles that tickle your nose when you sip it. Many kids like the taste, but it has a lot of sugar, so it is not good to drink every day. Some common kinds are cola, lemon-lime, and orange.
Softball\n\nSoftball is a game where players hit a ball and run. It is like baseball, but the ball is bigger and the pitcher throws the ball underhand. The game is played on a field with four bases in a diamond shape. Players use a bat to hit the ball and then run to the bases. The team with the most runs wins. You can see softball at a park or school field.
Softly\n\nSoftly means doing something in a gentle, quiet way. When you touch a baby bunny, you do it softly so you do not hurt it. You can also speak softly, like when you whisper a secret. It is the opposite of loud or rough. Many things feel nice when they are done softly, like a hug or a song at bedtime.
Soil\n\nSoil is the ground under your feet. It is made of tiny bits of rock, water, air, and old dead plants. You find it outside in gardens, parks, and fields. It helps plants grow by holding their roots and giving them food and water. Many little animals like worms live in it and make it soft. When you dig in a garden, you see dark, crumbly soil on top.
Solar\n\nSolar means something that comes from the sun. The sun is a big, bright ball of light in the sky. It gives us warm light every day. People use solar power to make lights and machines work. You can see solar panels on some roofs. They look like flat, dark mirrors that catch sunlight.
Solar eclipse\n\nA solar eclipse is when the moon moves in front of the sun. It makes the day go dark for a little while. You can see it in the sky if you are in the right place. People use special dark glasses to look at it so their eyes stay safe. Long ago, some people were scared because they did not know why the sun went away. Now we know it is just the moon blocking the sun's light.
Solar energy\n\nSolar energy is power that comes from the sun. It is warm and bright. You can feel it on your skin on a sunny day. People use it to heat water and cook food. It can also make electricity with special flat panels. These panels sit on roofs or in big fields. The sun gives us this power every day, and it never runs out.
Solar System\n\nThe Solar System is a big family of things in space that move around the Sun. It has the Sun in the middle, and the Sun is a huge, hot ball of light. It gives us light and heat. Around the Sun, there are eight big planets, like Earth. Some planets are made of rock, and some are made of gas. Many planets have moons that go around them. There are also small, icy rocks called comets and many space rocks called asteroids. You can see some of it at night when you look up at the stars and the Moon.
Solar wind\n\nSolar wind is a fast stream of tiny bits that come from the Sun. It is made of very small pieces that we cannot see. It blows out into space and goes very far, past all the planets. When it reaches Earth, our planet's big magnet shield stops most of it. The bits that get through make pretty lights in the sky near the North and South Poles. These lights are called the aurora. Sometimes a big burst of solar wind can cause problems with lights and power on Earth. It also pushes the long, bright tail of a comet away from the Sun.
Soldier\n\nA soldier is a person who works in an army. He wears a special suit called a uniform that is often green or brown. He may carry a big bag and a hard hat to keep safe. A soldier lives and works with other soldiers in a big group. He learns to march, follow orders, and help people. Sometimes he drives big trucks or flies in planes. You might see a soldier in a parade or on TV.
Solid\n\nA solid is something that keeps its own shape. It does not flow or spread out like water. You can hold a solid in your hand, and it feels hard or soft but stays the same. A rock, a toy block, and an ice cube are all solids. When you push on a solid, it pushes back and does not change shape easily. If you heat some solids enough, they melt and turn into a liquid.
Solomon\n\nSolomon was a king a long, long time ago. He was the son of another king named David. People say he was very wise, which means he knew the right thing to do. He built a big, special house for God called a temple. He also wrote parts of a very old book of wise sayings. He had a lot of gold and many helpers, but he made some sad choices too.
Solomon Islands\n\nThe Solomon Islands is a country made of many small islands in the big blue ocean. It has green trees, sandy beaches, and warm water. People live in villages and speak many different languages. Boats are used to travel between the islands. Sometimes the ground shakes there because of earthquakes under the sea.
Solstice\n\nA solstice is a special day that happens two times every year. It is the day when the sun is highest or lowest in the sky. On one solstice, the day is the longest of the year. On the other, the day is the shortest. In summer, the sun stays up late and the day feels long. In winter, the sun goes down early and the day feels short. Long ago, people had big parties on these days. Some of those old parties turned into holidays we still have, like Christmas time.
Solve\n\nTo solve something means to find the answer or fix a problem. When you have a puzzle, you think and try until all the pieces fit. That is solving the puzzle. If your toy breaks, you or a grown-up might find a way to make it work again. That is solving the problem. In school, you solve a math question when you say the right number. Solving makes things better and helps you feel proud.
Somalia\n\nSomalia is a country in Africa. It is a hot, dry place with not much rain. Many people there take care of camels and goats. They move around to find water and grass for the animals. Somalia is near the ocean on one side. A long time ago, people from far away came to buy special things like sweet-smelling tree sap. Today, Somalia is a poor country, and it is working hard to become safer and stronger.
Some\n\nSome is a word we use when we talk about a part of a group. It means a few, but not all. You might say, "I want some cookies," when you see a big plate. It can also mean a little bit, like when you ask for some water. You hear this word every day at home and at school.
Someday\n\nSomeday means a time that is not today. It is a day in the future, but we do not know exactly when. You might say, "Someday I will learn to ride a bike." It can be a happy thought about something you hope will happen. Someday is like a promise you make to yourself for later.
Someone\n\nSomeone is a word for a person when you do not know their name. It can be a boy or a girl, a man or a woman. You might see someone at the park, in a store, or on the street. If you drop your toy, someone might pick it up and give it back to you. It is a way to talk about a person without saying who they are.
Something\n\nSomething is a word we use when we do not know the name of a thing. It can be anything at all—a toy, a sound, or a feeling. You might say, "I hear something outside," when you do not know what made the noise. It is a helper word for things we cannot name yet.
Sometimes\n\nSometimes means not all the time. It is a word we use when a thing happens only on some days, not every day. You might eat ice cream sometimes, but not for every meal. Sometimes the sun is out, and sometimes it hides behind clouds. It is a way to say that things can change.
Somewhere\n\nSomewhere is a word we use when we do not know the exact place. It means a place that is not here. You might say, "My toy is somewhere in my room," when you cannot find it. It can be a place close by or far away. When you go on a trip, you go somewhere new. It is a fun word because it can be any place at all.
Son\n\nA son is a boy who is someone's child. He has a mom and a dad. He might have brothers or sisters. He lives with his family and goes to school. He likes to play with toys and run outside. When he grows up, he will be a man.
Sonar\n\nSonar is a tool that helps people find things deep under the water. It sends out a sound that bounces back when it hits something, like a fish or a big rock. Boats and ships use it to see what is below them in the sea. It can also listen quietly for sounds made by other things in the water. A long time ago, a man put a tube in the water to hear sounds, and that was the first try at using sonar. Now it helps keep boats safe and find fish.
Sonata\n\nA sonata is a long piece of music. It is played on one instrument, or sometimes two instruments together. You can hear it in a big room or a church. The music starts fast, then goes slow, and ends fast again. A short, easy sonata is called a sonatina.
Song\n\nA song is a piece of music with words. It has a tune you can hum and words you can sing. People make songs to share feelings, tell stories, or just have fun. You hear songs on the radio, on TV, or when someone sings to you. A song can be fast and happy, or slow and soft. Some songs are very old and people have sung them for a long time. When two people sing together, it is a duet. When three sing, it is a trio. Sometimes people change the words of a song but keep the tune, just to be silly.
Songbird\n\nA songbird is a small bird that sings pretty songs. It has two wings, two legs, a beak, and soft feathers. You can find it in trees, gardens, and parks. It sings to tell other birds where it is and to find a friend. A robin is a songbird you might see hopping on the grass.
Sonnet\n\nA sonnet is a short poem. It has 14 lines, and the words at the end of the lines often sound alike. You can find it in books of poems. People read it to feel happy or sad. It can tell a small story about love or a pretty flower. Some sonnets are very old, like the ones by a man named Shakespeare.
Soon\n\nSoon means something will happen in a little bit of time. It is not right now, but you do not have to wait long. When Mom says "dinner will be ready soon," it means you can play for a few more minutes. When a friend says "I will be there soon," it means they are on their way. Soon is a nice word because it tells you something good is coming.
Sore\n\nA sore is a spot on your skin that hurts. It can look red, puffy, or have a little cut. You might get one if you fall and scrape your knee. It can also be inside your mouth if you bite your cheek. A sore feels ouchy when you touch it. It gets better after a few days if you keep it clean.
Sorghum\n\nSorghum is a tall plant that looks like grass. It grows in hot, dry places where other plants have a hard time. People in Africa use it to make food like bread and porridge. It can live without much water, so it helps feed many families when it does not rain.
Sorry\n\nSorry is a word you say when you did something wrong. It is a way to tell someone you feel bad. You can say it with a hug or a sad face. When you bump into a friend, you say sorry. It helps make things better again.
Sort\n\nSort means to put things into groups or order. You can sort your toys by color, like putting all the red blocks together. You can sort by size, putting big things on one side and small things on the other. At home, you might sort socks into pairs after laundry. Sorting helps you find things faster and keeps your room tidy.
Soul\n\nA soul is the part of a person that is not the body. It is the part that thinks, feels, and loves. Many people believe it lives on after the body stops working. Some say it goes to a happy place called heaven. Others say it comes back in a new baby. No one can see a soul or touch it, but many people feel it is real.
Soul music\n\nSoul music is a kind of happy, strong music that makes you want to move. It mixes church songs, blues, and pop. It often has clapping, call-and-answer singing, and a voice that sounds tight and full of feeling. People sing about love, dancing, and life. You might hear it at a party or on the radio when Mom and Dad play old songs.
Sound\n\nSound is something you hear with your ears. It is made when things shake very fast. When you clap your hands, the air shakes and the shaking moves to your ear. Sound can go through air, water, and hard things like a wall. It cannot go through empty space, so astronauts use radios to talk. A big drum makes a low sound, and a little bell makes a high sound. Loud sounds have big shakes, and soft sounds have small shakes. Some sounds are too high or too low for people to hear, but a dog or a bat can hear them.
Sound recording and reproduction\n\nSound recording is a way to save sounds so you can hear them again later. It uses a machine to catch the sound and keep it on a thing like a flat black circle, a tape, or a shiny silver circle. You can find these things at home or in a car. People use it to listen to music, hear stories, or learn new things. When you press play on a music player, you hear a song that was saved before.
Soup\n\nSoup is a warm food you eat from a bowl. It has water and soft bits of vegetables like carrots and potatoes. Some soups also have small pieces of meat. People make it by cooking everything together in a big pot. You can eat it with a spoon. It tastes good on a cold day. Some soups are thin and clear, and some are thick and creamy. You can dip bread or toast into it. A soup you might know is chicken soup or tomato soup.
Sour\n\nSour is a sharp, tangy taste. It makes your mouth pucker up, like when you bite a lemon. You can find it in foods like lemons, limes, and green apples. Some candies are made to be very sour, and kids like to try them. It is one of the main tastes, along with sweet, salty, and bitter.
Source\n\nA source is where something comes from. It is the start of a thing. You can find a source in many places. For example, a river starts at a source high in the hills. When you turn on a tap, the water comes from a source like a big pipe or a lake. A source can also be a person who tells you a story, like when your friend says where they got a toy.
South\n\nSouth is a direction. It is the way you look when you face the sun at lunchtime. On a map, it is at the bottom. Many birds fly south when the weather gets cold. It is the opposite of north.
South Africa\n\nSouth Africa is a country at the bottom of Africa. It has big cities, wide open lands, and many people who speak different languages. You can find lions, zebras, and giraffes living there in special parks. Long ago, people found shiny diamonds and gold in the ground, and today many people still work in mines. The country has a warm sun and a long beach where the ocean water is blue.
South America\n\nSouth America is a big piece of land on our Earth. It is below North America, and a thin strip of water called the Panama Canal sits between them. It has many countries, like Brazil and Argentina. In South America, you can find a huge, wet forest called the Amazon. It is full of tall trees, colorful birds, and animals like monkeys and jaguars. The Amazon River runs through it, carrying more water than any other river. People also grow coffee and find shiny rocks like gold there. Many people visit to see the wild animals and the big forest.
South Asia\n\nSouth Asia is a big part of the world. It is in the south of the big land called Asia. Many countries are there, like India. It has tall mountains, hot dry places, and green fields. Many people there grow food like rice and tea. They also take care of cows and sheep. A big wind called a monsoon brings rain to help the plants grow. When the rain does not come, the land gets very dry.
South China Sea\n\nThe South China Sea is a big part of the ocean near China. It has blue water and many tiny islands. Some islands are so small that no one lives on them. Big boats carry things from one country to another across it. People catch fish in it for food. Many countries say parts of it belong to them.
South Island\n\nSouth Island is a big piece of land in the country of New Zealand. It is the bigger of the two main islands there. It has tall mountains, green forests, and blue lakes. Many people visit it to see the pretty land and to walk on the hills. Some people live there in small towns and cities. It is a quiet place with lots of open space.
South Korea\n\nSouth Korea is a country in East Asia. It is on the bottom half of a piece of land shaped like a tiger's claw. The top half is another country. Many people live in its big city called Seoul. It has tall buildings, busy streets, and old houses with curved roofs. People there eat rice and a spicy pickled cabbage called kimchi with every meal. They also make cars and shiny phones that people use all over the world. A long time ago, a king made a special alphabet so everyone could read and write. Today, children learn that alphabet in school.
South Pole\n\nThe South Pole is the very bottom point of the Earth. It is a place far away where it is always cold and covered in ice. You can find it on the big white land called Antarctica. No people live there all the time, but some scientists stay in a special building to study the ice and sky. The sun shines for half a year without stopping, and then it is dark for the other half. It is hard to get there because it is so cold and windy.
South Sudan\n\nSouth Sudan is a country in Africa. It is a big piece of land with many trees, rivers, and grassy fields. It has no ocean touching its edges, so it is called landlocked. Many people live there, and they speak many different languages. Most people are young. A long river called the White Nile runs through it and makes a huge wet, muddy place called the Sudd. People use oil from the ground to make money, but the country is still very poor. Many years of fighting have broken roads and houses.
Southeast\n\nSoutheast is a direction on a map. It is halfway between south and east. When you look at a map, it is the corner that points down and to the right. The sun rises in the east, so in the morning, southeast is a little to the right of where the sun comes up. Some places have southeast in their name, like Southeast Asia, which is a big group of warm countries far away.
Southeast Asia\n\nSoutheast Asia is a big part of the world. It is a group of many countries near the bottom of Asia. Some of these countries are on the big land, and some are on islands. It is very warm there, with lots of sun and rain. Many people live there, and they grow rice and fruits. You might see a tall coconut tree or a colorful market if you visit.
Southern Africa\n\nSouthern Africa is a big piece of land at the very bottom of Africa. It has hot sun, dry deserts, and green places with trees. Many wild animals live there, like lions, elephants, and zebras. People in Southern Africa speak many different languages and live in cities and small villages. You can find it on a map by looking for the pointy end of Africa.
Southern Ocean\n\nThe Southern Ocean is a big body of water all around the bottom of our world. It is very cold and touches the land of ice called Antarctica. It is one of the biggest oceans on Earth. Many animals like penguins and whales live in it. Big pieces of ice float on top of it. Ships can sail in it, but it is often stormy and icy.
Southern United States\n\nThe Southern United States is a big part of the country. It is in the southeast corner of the map. It has long, hot summers and short, cool winters. A lot of rain falls there, so plants grow well. Farmers grow cotton, peanuts, and peaches. The food in the South is special and different from other places. Some states in the South are Texas, Florida, and Georgia.
Sow bug\n\nA sow bug is a tiny animal with a hard shell. It has fourteen little legs and a flat, gray body. You can find it under wet rocks or old leaves in the garden. It eats dead plants and helps clean up the ground. When it feels scared, some kinds can roll into a tight ball to stay safe.
Soy milk\n\nSoy milk is a white drink made from soybeans. It looks a lot like cow's milk, but it comes from plants, not animals. You can find it in a carton at the grocery store. People pour it on cereal, drink it from a cup, or use it in baking. Some people who cannot drink cow's milk choose soy milk instead. It tastes a little sweet and a little like beans.
Soy sauce\n\nSoy sauce is a dark brown liquid that makes food taste salty and rich. It is made from soy beans, grain, water, and salt. People pour it on rice, noodles, or meat to add flavor. You can find it in many kitchens and on tables at restaurants. It comes in a bottle and smells strong. A little bit goes a long way.
Soybean\n\nA soybean is a small seed that grows on a plant. It is round and can be yellow, green, or brown. Farmers grow it in big fields where the sun is warm. People use it to make many foods like milk, sauce, and soft white blocks called tofu. It has a lot of good stuff that helps your body grow strong. Some people also use it to make oil for cooking. Long ago in China, it was a very special food.
Soyuz (spacecraft)\n\nSoyuz is a spaceship that carries people into space. It has three main parts. One part is where the people sit and come back to Earth. Another part holds food, tools, and a door to join a big space station. The last part has big flat wings that catch sunlight to make power. It flies from a special place in a country far away. Today, it takes people to a big house in space called the Space Station. It stays there so people can come home fast if there is trouble.
Space\n\nSpace is the big, dark place above the sky. It goes on and on without an end. You can see it at night when you look up at the stars and the moon. There is no air in space, so people need a special suit to breathe. Rockets and spaceships can travel through it. Astronauts are people who go into space to learn new things.
Space exploration\n\nSpace exploration is when people send machines or people into the sky to learn about space. It uses big rockets that go very fast and fly high above the clouds. You can see pictures of the Moon, Mars, and faraway stars that came from space trips. People do it to find out what is out there and to see if other worlds have rocks, ice, or air. A long time ago, people first sent a small metal ball called a satellite around Earth. Later, people walked on the Moon and brought back moon rocks. Now, little cars with cameras drive on Mars and send photos home.
Space Shuttle\n\nA Space Shuttle is a big flying machine that went to space. It had three main parts: a plane-shaped part with wings, a big orange tank, and two long white rockets. It took people called astronauts and big boxes of tools up above the clouds. After its trip, the plane part glided back down and landed on a long road like an airplane. You can see a real one in a museum today.
Space station\n\nA space station is a big house that floats in space. It goes around the Earth, high up where the stars are. People called astronauts live inside it for many days or months. They use it to learn what happens to the body in space and to do science tests. Other flying ships can come and bring food, water, and new people. The biggest one in space right now is called the International Space Station.
Spacecraft\n\nA spacecraft is a big machine that flies into space. It can carry people or just machines. It has a strong engine that pushes it up, up, up past the clouds. You can see it on a launch pad before it goes. It helps people visit the moon or send pictures back to Earth. Some spacecraft stay near Earth and send TV signals or tell us about the weather. Astronauts ride inside and wear special suits to stay safe.
Spaceflight\n\nSpaceflight is when a thing made by people goes up into the sky and far past the clouds into space. It can carry people or go up empty. A big, loud rocket pushes it up very fast. Once it is in space, it can fly around our big round Earth or go to the moon. Some spaceflights have people inside, like a special bus that floats. Others have no people and are just machines that take pictures or send phone calls back to Earth. When it comes back down, a big cloth called a parachute helps it land softly.
Spaceship\n\nA spaceship is a big metal car that flies in the sky. It is long and pointy at the top. You can see it at a space museum or in a movie. It takes people way up high, past the clouds, into space. It goes very fast, faster than a plane. An astronaut sits inside and looks out a small round window. From the window, the sky is black and the stars are bright.
Spade\n\nA spade is a tool for digging in the ground. It has a long handle and a flat, sharp metal end. You push it into the dirt with your foot. People use it to make holes for plants or to move soil. You might see one in a garden or at a farm.
Spain\n\nSpain is a country in Europe. It is next to France and Portugal. It has big mountains in the north and long beaches by the sea. Many people live in Spain. They speak Spanish. They eat yummy food like rice with seafood. They also have big parties with music and dancing. The capital city is Madrid. It has a big park and a king's house.
Spanish\n\nSpanish is a way of talking that many people use. It sounds like music with soft and bouncy words. You can hear it in places like Mexico and Spain. People say "hola" to mean hello and "gracias" to say thank you. If you watch a show or listen to a song, you might hear Spanish words.
Spanish Empire\n\nThe Spanish Empire was a big group of lands ruled by Spain long ago. It had many places across the ocean, like parts of America and islands. People from Spain went there on big ships. They built towns and shared their language and food. Today, many people in those places still speak Spanish. You can see old Spanish buildings in some of those lands.
Spanish language\n\nSpanish is a way people talk and write. It sounds like music and has many words. You can hear it in places like Mexico, Spain, and many other countries. Many children learn it at home from their family. Some kids sing songs or count numbers in it. It is one of the most spoken ways of talking in the whole world.
Spanish literature\n\nSpanish literature is all the stories, poems, and plays that people write in the Spanish language. It started a long, long time ago in a country called Spain. It has many kinds of writing, like happy poems, sad poems, and exciting stories. Some of it is for grown-ups, and some is for kids. You can find it in books at the library or at school. One famous story from Spanish literature is about a man who fights windmills because he thinks they are giants.
Spanish moss\n\nSpanish moss is a plant that hangs from tree branches. It looks like long, thin, gray-green hair. You can find it on big trees in warm, wet places like Florida and Texas. It is not a bad plant—it does not hurt the tree. It gets its food and water from the air and rain. Long ago, people used it to stuff car seats and mattresses.
Sparkle\n\nSparkle is a quick, bright flash of light. It looks like tiny stars dancing for just a moment. You can see it on clean water when the sun shines, or on a shiny ring. It makes things look pretty and full of light. A diamond often has a sparkle that catches your eye.
Sparkly\n\nSparkly means something shines with many tiny, quick lights. It looks like little stars are dancing on it. You can see sparkly things on a princess dress, a birthday card, or a clean window in the sun. Glitter and shiny stickers are sparkly too. When light hits it, it twinkles and makes you smile.
Sparrow\n\nA sparrow is a small bird. It has brown and gray feathers, a short tail, and a small strong beak. You can see it near houses, in cities, and on farms. It eats seeds and tiny bugs. It builds its nest in holes in walls or trees. Many sparrows live together in a group called a flock.
Sparrowhawk\n\nA sparrowhawk is a small bird that hunts other birds. It has short, wide wings and a long tail that help it fly between trees. The boy sparrowhawk has a blue-gray back and orange stripes on its chest. The girl is bigger and has brown feathers with brown stripes. It lives in woods, gardens, and towns in Europe, Asia, and Africa. It catches small birds like sparrows and finches to eat. It builds a nest from twigs high in a tree. The mom lays four or five pale blue eggs. After the babies hatch, they stay in the nest for about a month. Some people train it to hunt with them, but it is hard to teach.
Sparta\n\nSparta is a very old city in a land called Greece. It sits in a valley with tall mountains on both sides. Long ago, it had a strong army with brave fighters. Today, it is a small, quiet town. People visit to see old stones and learn about its past.
Speak\n\nSpeak is when you use your voice to say words. It is how people talk to each other. You move your mouth and tongue to make sounds. When you speak, someone else can hear you and understand what you think or feel. You speak to your friends when you play, and you speak to your teacher at school. Even a baby learns to speak by listening to grown-ups.
Speaker\n\nA speaker is a box that makes sound. It has a round part inside that moves back and forth very fast. You can find it in a phone, a TV, or a radio. It plays music, voices, and other sounds so you can hear them. When you listen to a song on a tablet, the sound comes out of a speaker.
Spear\n\nA spear is a long stick with a sharp point at one end. It is used to poke or throw at something far away. Long ago, people used it to hunt big animals for food. Some spears are light so a person can throw them. A very long spear can help a person on the ground stop a person on a horse. You might see a spear in a picture book about knights or old times.
Special\n\nSpecial means something is not like the others. It is a word we use when a thing or a person is very good or very important. You might have a special toy that you love the most. A birthday is a special day because it is only for you. When someone does something kind, we say that person is special. It feels warm and happy to be special.
Special effect\n\nA special effect is a trick that makes a movie look like something is real when it is not. It can be a tiny model that looks big on the screen, or a picture made by a computer. People use it to show things that are too hard, too costly, or too scary to do for real. For example, a movie might show a big ship on fire, but it is really a small toy ship that is safe to burn. You can see it in cartoons and in movies about space or monsters.
Species\n\nA species is a group of living things that are the same kind. It can be animals, like dogs, or plants, like roses. All the things in one species look alike and can have babies together. For example, all pet cats are one species. They have kittens that grow up to be cats too. You can find different species everywhere—in your backyard, at the park, or in the zoo.
Speech\n\nSpeech is how people talk to each other using words. It comes from sounds made in the throat and shaped by the mouth, tongue, and lips. People use speech to share ideas, ask for things, and tell stories. You hear speech when a friend says hello, when a teacher reads a book, or when you sing a song. Only people can use speech, but some animals make sounds to share simple things too.
Speed\n\nSpeed is how fast something moves. It tells you how much ground a thing covers in a short time. You see it when a car goes down the street or when you run in the park. A fast runner has more speed than a slow walker. If you ride a bike, you can feel the wind when your speed is high. The fastest thing in the world is light.
Speed of light\n\nThe speed of light is how fast light moves. It is the fastest thing in the whole world. Nothing can go faster than it. Light from the sun takes about eight minutes to reach us. When you turn on a lamp, the light fills the room right away because it moves so fast.
Speed of sound\n\nThe speed of sound is how fast a sound moves from one place to another. It moves through the air, but you cannot see it. In warm air, it goes very, very fast — faster than any car or plane you know. It moves even faster through water and hard things like metal. Sound cannot move through empty space where there is no air at all. When something goes faster than sound, it makes a loud boom, like a big pop in the sky.
Speed skating\n\nSpeed skating is a race on ice. People wear special shoes with long, thin blades on the bottom. They skate very fast around a big oval track. Two skaters go at the same time, and the faster one wins. You can see it on TV during the Winter Olympics. Some kids learn to speed skate at an ice rink near home.
Spell\n\nA spell is a set of magic words or actions. It is like a secret recipe that makes something special happen. In stories, a witch or a wizard says a spell to turn a pumpkin into a carriage or to make a broom fly. You might see a spell in a fairy tale book or a cartoon. When someone casts a spell, they wave a wand or say funny words, and then something changes. It is not real, but it is fun to pretend.
Spend\n\nSpend means to use money to buy something. When you give a coin to get a toy, you spend it. People spend money on food, clothes, and fun things. At the store, you see a price tag, and you spend that much to take the item home. You can also spend time, like when you play outside for an hour.
Sperm whale\n\nA sperm whale is a very big animal that lives in the ocean. It has the biggest head of any animal, and its head is about one third of its whole body. It has a small lower jaw with big, pointy teeth. It eats meat, mostly squid and fish, and it dives very deep to find food. It can stay under the water for two hours. It makes clicking sounds to find things in the dark water, and it listens for the echo that bounces back. This helps it hunt and talk to other whales.
Sphere\n\nA sphere is a round shape that is not flat. It looks like a ball. Every spot on the outside is the same space from the middle. You can find it in many places. A basketball is a sphere. A marble is a sphere too. The Earth is a very big sphere. The Sun is a sphere that is far away and very hot.
Sphinx\n\nA sphinx is a made-up creature from old stories. It has the head of a person and the body of a big cat called a lion. Some also have wings like a bird. In very old Greek tales, it was mean and would ask hard questions. If someone could not answer, it would hurt them. In old Egypt, people thought it was kind and strong. They built big stone statues of it to guard special places like pyramids. You can see a very big one in pictures of Egypt, with a person's head and a lion's body lying in the sand.
Spice\n\nSpice is a powder or tiny piece from a plant that makes food taste yummy. It can be brown, yellow, red, or orange. You find it in small jars in the kitchen. People shake it or spoon it into food while cooking. Cinnamon is a spice that tastes sweet on toast. Some spices make food a little hot, like the red one on tacos.
Spicy\n\nSpicy is a hot, tingly feeling you get in your mouth when you eat some foods. It can make your tongue feel warm or like tiny tickles. You find it in foods like hot peppers, salsa, or some soups. People add spicy things to make food taste strong and exciting. A food many kids know is pepperoni on pizza — it can be a little spicy. If you eat something too spicy, drinking milk can help cool your mouth down.
Spider\n\nA spider is a small animal with eight legs. It has a body with two round parts. Many spiders make a sticky thread called silk. It uses the silk to build a web. The web helps it catch bugs to eat. You can find a spider in a garden, in a house, or in the woods. It hides in corners or under leaves. Some spiders are tiny, and some are big and hairy.
Spider monkey\n\nA spider monkey is a small monkey that lives in trees. It has long arms, long legs, and a very long tail. The tail can grab branches like an extra hand. It lives in warm, rainy forests far away. It swings and jumps from tree to tree and almost never comes down to the ground. It eats fruit, nuts, and leaves. A spider monkey stays with a big group of other monkeys.
Spill\n\nA spill is when a liquid falls out of its cup or bottle by accident. It can be water, milk, juice, or paint. You might see a spill on the table, on the floor, or on your shirt. When something spills, it makes a mess that is wet. You can clean it up with a cloth or a paper towel. If you knock over your cup at lunch, that is a spill.
Spin\n\nSpin means to turn around and around very fast. It is like when a top goes round on the floor. You can spin your body by twirling with your arms out. A wheel on a bike spins when you ride. A merry-go-round at the park spins too. When something spins, it does not move far away—it stays in one spot and turns.
Spin (physics)\n\nSpin is a tiny thing that some very small bits of stuff have. It is not like a top that turns around. It is more like a tiny, hidden arrow that points one way. You cannot see it, but it is always there. It makes the tiny bit act like a very small magnet. Scientists use big tools to find it. They call it spin, but it does not really spin.
Spinach\n\nSpinach is a green vegetable with big, soft leaves. It grows from the ground in gardens or farms. People eat it in salads, soups, or cooked on its own. It is very good for your body and helps you grow strong. Some kids see it in cartoons where it gives a sailor man big muscles.
Spinal cord\n\nThe spinal cord is a long, soft rope of nerves inside your back. It runs from your brain down through the bones of your spine. It carries messages between your brain and your body. When you touch something hot, it sends a fast message to your brain so you pull your hand away. It also helps you move your arms and legs when you want to run or jump. The bones around it keep it safe, like a helmet for your back.
Spine\n\nA spine is a long row of small bones that runs down the middle of your back. It goes from your neck all the way to your bottom. You can feel it if you touch the middle of your back. It holds your body up so you can stand and sit tall. Inside it, there is a soft cord that helps your brain talk to the rest of your body. That is why you can move your arms and legs. Many animals, like dogs and cats, also have a spine.
Spiral galaxy\n\nA spiral galaxy is a big group of stars that looks like a pinwheel. It has a bright, round middle and long, curvy arms that spin around slowly. You can see pictures of it in space books or on TV. It holds many stars, glowing clouds, and a very heavy, dark spot at the center. Our own star home, the Milky Way, is a spiral galaxy. When you look up at a dark night sky, the fuzzy band of light you see is part of its arms.
Spirituality\n\nSpirituality is a feeling deep inside you. It is about what makes life feel big and special. Some people find it when they pray or go to a quiet place. Others feel it when they look at a starry sky or help a friend. It can make a person feel calm and happy. You do not need a church to have it. It is like a warm light in your heart.
Splash\n\nA splash is what happens when something hits water fast. It makes water jump up and fly into the air. You can see it when you jump into a pool or when a big rock falls into a lake. It makes a loud, happy sound and little drops go everywhere. After the splash, the water moves in rings that get bigger and bigger.
Spleen\n\nThe spleen is a small body part inside you. It is on the left side, under your ribs, near your tummy. It looks like a soft, squishy fist. It helps keep your blood clean by taking out old, tired blood cells. It also helps your body fight off germs when you get sick. If it gets hurt, a doctor must fix it right away.
Sponge\n\nA sponge is a soft thing full of tiny holes. It can soak up water like a thirsty towel. You find it in the kitchen or bathroom for cleaning dishes and spills. When you squeeze it, water comes out. Some sponges come from the sea, but many are made in a factory. It feels squishy and light in your hand.
Sponge (tool)\n\nA sponge is a soft tool that helps you clean things. It has many tiny holes all over it. You can find it in the kitchen or the bathroom. When you rub it on a dirty plate with some water, the dirt comes off. Some sponges come from the sea, but most are made by people in a factory. A dolphin can even use a sea sponge to help it find food.
Spoon\n\nA spoon is a tool that helps you eat. It has a small round bowl at one end and a long handle to hold. You can find it in the kitchen at home. People use it to eat soft foods like soup, yogurt, and ice cream. It can also stir things in a cup. A big spoon for serving food is called a ladle. Some people even click two spoons together to make music.
Sport\n\nSport is a game where people move their bodies and try to win. It can be played inside or outside, alone or with a team. Some sports use a ball, like soccer or basketball. Other sports use a bat, a racket, or just your own two feet. People run, jump, throw, and catch when they play. Doing sport makes your body strong and your heart happy. Many children play sport at school or in a park with friends. A grown-up called a coach helps them learn the rules and get better. Some people like to watch sport on TV or go to a big field to see it live. They cheer and clap for the players.
Sport Of Athletics\n\nAthletics is a group of sports where people run, jump, or throw things. It includes races on a track, jumping over a high bar, and throwing a heavy ball far away. You can see it at a big stadium with lots of seats. People do it to see who is the fastest or strongest. Many kids try it at school on sports day.
Spot\n\nA spot is a small round mark on something. It can be a different color than the rest of the thing. You might see a spot on a shirt, on a dog's fur, or on a piece of paper. Some spots are made by food or paint. You can try to wash a spot off with water and soap. A ladybug has black spots on its red back.
Spray\n\nA spray is a bunch of tiny drops that fly through the air. It looks like a soft, wet cloud. You can see it when you push the top of a spray bottle. It helps spread water, perfume, or cleaner over a big space. Sometimes you see a spray when a whale blows water out of its head.
Spread\n\nA spread is something soft you put on bread or a cracker. It can be sweet like jam or honey. It can also be creamy like butter or cheese. You use a knife to scoop it and smooth it over the bread. Many people eat a spread for breakfast or a snack. Peanut butter is a spread that kids love.
Spreadsheet\n\nA spreadsheet is a computer tool that looks like a big paper with many little boxes. It has rows that go side to side and columns that go up and down. People use it to write numbers and words in the boxes. It can do math for you, like adding up how much your toys cost. It can also make a picture from the numbers, like a pie chart. You might see a spreadsheet when a grown-up works on a computer at home or at an office.
Spring\n\nSpring is a time of year when the weather gets warm. It comes after winter and before summer. In spring, flowers start to grow and trees get new green leaves. You can see baby animals like chicks and bunnies. Many people go outside to play because the sun feels nice.
Spring (device)\n\nA spring is a twisty piece of metal. It looks like a curly snake or a slinky toy. You can push it down and it gets small. When you let go, it pops back up to its first shape. Some springs are in pens, so the tip goes in and out. Big springs are under cars to make the ride soft and bouncy.
Spring (season)\n\nSpring is a time of year that comes after winter. It gets warmer, and the days get longer. You see new green leaves on trees and bright flowers pop up from the ground. Rain falls often, which helps plants grow. Many baby animals are born in spring, like little birds and bunnies. People like to play outside more because the sun feels nice. Some holidays like Easter happen in spring. At school, you might have a spring break when you get to stay home for a few days.
Spring (water)\n\nA spring is a place where water comes out of the ground all by itself. It can be a small pool or a wet spot on a hill. Sometimes the water flows out all year, and sometimes only after rain or when snow melts. The water from it often runs downhill and can start a little river. Some springs have water that people think is good for the body. Long ago, people built towns near these springs so sick people could come and feel better.
Springtail\n\nA springtail is a tiny animal with six legs. It has no wings and a soft body. It lives in wet dirt and under leaves. It eats tiny bits of old plants and tiny living things in the soil. It can jump very far when something scares it. You might see one if you dig in the garden after rain.
Spruce\n\nA spruce is a tall tree with green needles that stay on all year. It has a pointy top and looks like a big cone. You can find it in cold places where snow falls. People use it as a Christmas tree and put lights on it. Its wood is used to make paper and houses.
Square\n\nA square is a flat shape with four sides. All four sides are the same length. It has four corners that look like the corner of a book. You can find squares on a checkerboard or on a window with small panes. A square is like a box you draw on paper. It is also the face of a cube, like a block you play with.
Squash (plant)\n\nA squash is a plant that grows a big, round or long fruit we can eat. It has a hard outside skin and soft inside with seeds. You can find it in a garden or at a food store. People cook it to make soup, pie, or just eat it warm. A pumpkin is a kind of squash you might see at Halloween.
Squash (sport)\n\nSquash is a game for two people. It is played inside a room with four walls. Each player holds a light racket and hits a small rubber ball. The ball must hit the front wall before it bounces twice on the floor. Players take turns hitting the ball. A point is won when the other player cannot reach the ball in time. The first player to get 11 points wins the game, but they must win by two points. You might see people playing squash at a sports center or gym.
Squeak\n\nA squeak is a short, high, tiny sound. It is like a little peep or a soft cry. You can hear it when a mouse runs across the floor. A door that needs oil can also make it when it opens. A squeaky toy makes this sound when you squeeze it. It is a sound that is quick and light, not loud or deep.
Squeeze\n\nSqueeze means to press something hard with your hands. It can make a thing smaller or push something out. You squeeze a tube of toothpaste to get the paste out. You squeeze a sponge to get the water out. A hug is a gentle squeeze with your arms. You can squeeze a lemon to get juice for your drink.
Squid\n\nA squid is a soft sea animal with many arms. It has eight short arms and two long arms with little cups that stick. It lives deep in the ocean. It moves by pushing water out of its body, like a fast jet. It can change its skin color to hide from bigger animals. Some squids are very small, but a few are as big as a school bus. People sometimes see them in books about sea monsters.
Squirrel\n\nA squirrel is a small, furry animal with a big, bushy tail. It has four legs, sharp claws, and two bright eyes. You can see it in parks, woods, and sometimes in your backyard. It climbs trees very fast and jumps from branch to branch. It eats nuts, seeds, and berries. In the fall, it hides food in the ground to eat later when it is cold. A squirrel makes a nest of leaves high up in a tree to sleep and keep its babies safe.
Squishy\n\nSquishy is a word for something soft and easy to press. It feels like a sponge or a soft toy. When you push it with your finger, it goes flat and then pops back up. You can find squishy things in a toy store, like a squishy ball or a squishy animal. Many kids like to hold a squishy thing because it feels nice in their hand.
Sri Lanka\n\nSri Lanka is a warm island country in the big blue sea. It is shaped like a tiny teardrop near India. On its flag, a golden lion holds a sword. Many people there grow tea leaves on green hills. You can see elephants walking on the roads. It has sandy beaches where children play in the waves.
Stable\n\nA stable is a small house for big farm animals. It has walls, a roof, and a door. Inside, it is split into little rooms called stalls. Each animal gets its own stall to sleep in. You can find a stable on a farm, near the farmer's house. It keeps animals like horses and cows warm and dry. Up high, there is a space to store hay for them to eat. A long time ago, a very special baby was born in a stable and slept on soft straw.
Stack\n\nA stack is a pile of things put one on top of another. It looks like a tower that gets taller as you add more. You can find a stack in many places, like a stack of books on a table or a stack of blocks in a playroom. People make a stack to keep things neat and save space. When you put one more block on top, the stack grows. If you take one from the top, it gets smaller.
Stadium\n\nA stadium is a very big building where many people sit and watch a game or a show. It has lots and lots of seats all around a big open field in the middle. You can find a stadium in a big city. People go there to see football, baseball, or running races. Sometimes a stadium has a name from a store or a company, like a toy store name. An arena is a smaller stadium that is inside, with a roof. People use an arena for basketball, ice hockey, or music shows.
Stage\n\nA stage is a big, flat floor that is raised up high. It is where people sing, dance, or act out a story. You can find it in a school, a park, or a big room with many chairs. When you watch a play, the actors stand on it so everyone can see them. Sometimes it has big red curtains that open and close.
Stage (theatre)\n\nA stage is a big, flat floor where actors stand and perform. It is usually made of wood and is higher than the floor where people sit. You find it inside a theatre, at the front of the room. Actors use it to act out stories, sing songs, or dance. When you watch a school play, the children stand on a stage so everyone can see them.
Stainless steel\n\nStainless steel is a strong, shiny metal. It looks silver and smooth. You can find it in your kitchen as forks, spoons, and knives. It does not get red and flaky like some other metals when it gets wet. People use it to make pots, sinks, and even parts of big airplanes. It stays clean and bright for a long time.
Stair\n\nA stair is a set of steps that helps you go up or down. It has flat parts where you put your feet, and each flat part is a little higher than the one before. You find it inside houses, schools, and stores. People use it to walk from one floor to another. A stair can be made of wood, stone, or metal. When you climb it, you hold onto a rail to stay safe.
Stairs\n\nStairs are steps that help you go up or down. They are made of flat parts where you put your feet. You find stairs inside houses, schools, and big buildings. People use them to move from one floor to another. Some stairs go straight, and some turn at a corner. A railing on the side helps you hold on so you do not fall. You may have seen stairs at home or at the park.
Stamp\n\nA stamp is a small, sticky paper picture. It has a pretty design on the front and glue on the back. You put it on a letter or a postcard before you mail it. It shows that you paid to send the mail. You can buy stamps at the post office. Some people collect stamps in a book because they like the pictures.
Stand\n\nA stand is a thing that holds something up. It can be made of wood, metal, or plastic. You might see a stand in a store holding fruit or in a park holding a sign. It keeps things from falling over. A music stand holds paper so a person can read while playing.
Stand-up comedy\n\nStand-up comedy is a show where one person tells funny stories and jokes to a crowd. It uses a small stick that makes the voice loud, so everyone can hear. You can see it in a club, a big room with a stage, or even at a school. The person on stage talks fast and makes people laugh with silly words and faces. Sometimes they also play a little song or do a trick. Many people go to watch stand-up comedy to have a happy time with friends.
Standard\n\nA standard is a rule or a way of doing something that many people agree on. It helps things work the same way in different places. For example, a red light always means stop, and a green light means go. That is a standard rule for traffic. In school, raising your hand before you speak is a standard way to take turns. Standards make it easier for everyone to understand each other and stay safe.
Standard Model\n\nThe Standard Model is a big idea that scientists use to understand the tiny bits that make up everything. It is like a list of very small building blocks. Some of these blocks are called quarks and electrons. They are too small to see, even with a strong looking glass. Scientists use the Standard Model to guess how these tiny bits move and stick together. It helps them explain why the sun shines and why things have weight.
Star\n\nA star is a big, bright ball of hot gas in the sky. It looks like a tiny, twinkling light at night. You can see many stars when the sky is dark and clear. The Sun is a star too, but it is much closer to us, so it looks big and warm. Stars give off light and heat. Long ago, people used stars to tell stories and find their way.
Star cluster\n\nA star cluster is a big family of stars that stay close together. It looks like a bright, sparkly patch in the night sky. You can see some star clusters with just your eyes when the sky is dark and clear. The stars in it were born at the same time, so they are like brothers and sisters. One famous star cluster is called the Pleiades. It has seven bright stars that shine like tiny diamonds.
Star formation\n\nStar formation is how a new star is born. It starts inside a big, dark cloud of dust and gas in space. The cloud is very cold and full of tiny bits. Over a long time, the cloud pulls itself together into a hot, round ball. That ball gets hotter and brighter until it shines like the Sun. You can see stars at night, and each one began this way.
Star system\n\nA star system is a group of stars that move around each other. They stay together because a strong pull holds them tight. You can see some star systems in the night sky, like the bright star Sirius. A system with two stars is called a binary star. Sometimes there are three or more stars all moving as one family. They are like a space dance that never stops.
Starch\n\nStarch is a white powder that comes from plants. It has no taste and no smell. You can find it in foods like bread, potatoes, pasta, and beans. It helps make sauces thick when you cook. It also gives your body energy to run and play. Some people use it to make clothes feel smooth and stiff.
Starfish\n\nA starfish is a sea animal that looks like a star. It has five arms, or sometimes more, that grow out from a round middle. It lives on the floor of the ocean, in deep water or near the shore. It moves slowly on tiny tube feet under its arms. It eats clams and other animals with shells by pulling the shell open and pushing its stomach inside. If it loses an arm, it can grow a new one. You might see a dry starfish at the beach or in a book about the sea.
Starling\n\nA starling is a small bird with dark, shiny feathers and tiny white spots. It has strong feet and flies fast and straight. You can see it in parks, gardens, and cities, often in big groups. It eats bugs and fruit, and it looks for food by poking its beak into the ground. In the evening, many starlings fly together in a big, twisting cloud before they sleep.
Start\n\nTo start means to begin something. It is the very first part of doing a thing. When you push a button and a toy makes a sound, you start the toy. At school, the teacher says "let's start" before a lesson. In a race, a loud noise tells everyone to start running.
State\n\nA state is a group of people who live in one place and have leaders who make rules for everyone. It has a piece of land with clear lines around it, called borders. You can find a state on a map, like the place where you live. The leaders keep people safe, make laws, and help things run smoothly. For example, the United States is a big state made of many smaller states that work together.
State Of Matter\n\nA state of matter is how a thing feels and acts. It can be hard like a rock, wet like water, or light like the air we breathe. You can find all three in your kitchen: ice is hard, water is wet, and steam from a pot is light. When you heat ice, it turns into water. When you heat water, it turns into steam. That is how one thing can change its state.
Statement\n\nA statement is a group of words that tells something. It can be a short sentence like "The sky is blue" or a longer one. People use statements every day when they talk or write. A statement shares a fact, a thought, or a feeling. For example, when a child says "I am hungry," that is a statement. It helps others know what is in your mind.
States of matter\n\nStates of matter are the ways things can be. There are four main kinds: solid, liquid, gas, and plasma.\n\nA solid is hard and keeps its shape. Ice is a solid. A liquid is wet and takes the shape of its cup. Water is a liquid. A gas is like air and spreads out to fill a room. Steam from a hot bath is a gas. Plasma is a hot, bright gas that makes lightning and stars glow. Heat can change one state into another. When ice gets warm, it melts into water. When water gets very hot, it turns into steam.
Station\n\nA station is a place where people wait for a train or a bus. It has a long, flat floor next to the tracks or the road. You can find a station in a city or a town. People go there to get on a ride and go somewhere else. It often has a roof to keep you dry when it rains. You might see a station near your house or on a trip with your family.
Statistic\n\nA statistic is a number that tells us something about a group. It helps us see how many, how much, or how often something happens. For example, if we count how many kids in class like apples, that number is a statistic. People use statistics to learn about the world, like how many people live in a city or how many rainy days there are in a year. You might see a statistic in a book with a picture of a bar chart or a pie chart.
Statue\n\nA statue is a shape of a person or an animal. It is made from hard stuff like stone, metal, or wood. You can see a statue in a park, a museum, or a big city square. People make it to remember someone important or to make a place look pretty. Some statues are very big, like the tall lady with a torch in New York.
Statue of Liberty\n\nThe Statue of Liberty is a very big statue of a woman. It stands on an island near New York City. It is made of copper, so it looks green. She holds a torch up high in one hand and a stone book in the other hand. She wears a crown with seven points. Long ago, people on boats saw it first when they came to America. It was a gift from France to say 'we are friends.' Today, many people visit it and look up at it from the ground.
Stay\n\nStay means to keep being in one place and not go away. When you stay, you do not move to a new spot. You can stay at home with your family. You can stay sitting on the floor while you play. A dog might stay when you tell it to. It is the opposite of leaving.
Steady\n\nSteady means something stays the same and does not change much. It is like holding your hand still without shaking. A steady light does not blink on and off. When you walk slowly and do not fall, you are steady. A steady friend is someone who is always there for you.
Steal\n\nSteal means to take something that is not yours. It is when a person picks up a toy, a cookie, or money without asking. Stealing is not nice and can make the other person sad. If you see someone steal, you should tell a grown-up. It is always better to ask before you take something.
Steam\n\nSteam is water that has turned into a hot, see-through gas. It comes out when water gets very, very hot and starts to bubble. You can see it rise from a pot on the stove when Mom or Dad cooks. It is so hot that it can burn you, so you must stay back. People use it to push big machines like old trains. It also helps cook soft foods like rice and vegetables.
Steam engine\n\nA steam engine is a big machine that uses hot steam to move. It has a metal box called a boiler where water gets very hot from a fire. The hot steam pushes on a part that goes back and forth. That moving part can turn wheels or work other machines. Long ago, it pulled trains on tracks and pushed big boats on water. Today, some places still use it to make power for lights and homes.
Steam locomotive\n\nA steam locomotive is a big train that runs on tracks. It has a long body, a tall chimney on top, and big round wheels. Inside, it burns coal to make hot steam. The steam pushes a metal arm that turns the wheels. Long ago, it pulled many trains with people and heavy things. Today, you can still see one at a train museum or in an old movie.
Steamboat\n\nA steamboat is a big boat that moves on water. It has a special engine that uses hot steam to turn a wheel or a fan under the water. Long ago, many steamboats had big round wheels on the sides or at the back. You could see them on rivers, carrying people and boxes from one town to another. Today, most boats use a different kind of engine, so you do not see steamboats very often. You might see a picture of one in a storybook about old times.
Steel\n\nSteel is a very strong metal. It is made by mixing iron with a little bit of carbon. It looks shiny and silver. People make steel in big buildings called steel mills. It is used to build tall buildings, long bridges, cars, and ships. When a steel thing gets old, it can be melted and made into something new.
Steep\n\nSteep means something goes up or down very fast, like a big hill. It is hard to walk up a steep hill because your legs get tired. A steep slide at the park goes down fast and feels exciting. You can see steep roofs on houses that look like a tall triangle. A steep mountain is very high and hard to climb.
Stegosaurus\n\nStegosaurus is a big animal that lived a long, long time ago. It had a small head, a round body, and a tail with sharp spikes. On its back, it had big flat plates that stood up. It walked on four legs, but its front legs were shorter than its back legs. It ate only plants that grew low to the ground. You can see its bones in a museum, and it looks like a giant puzzle.
Stem\n\nA stem is the long, thin part of a plant that holds it up. It is like the plant's back. It grows from the ground and reaches up toward the sun. Leaves and flowers grow from it. You can see a stem on a rose or a sunflower. It carries water and food from the roots to the rest of the plant.
Step\n\nA step is one move of your foot when you walk. It is the space between one foot and the next. You take many steps to go from one place to another. When you climb stairs, you put your foot on each step. A step can be big or small. You can count steps when you play a game like hopscotch.
Stepfamily\n\nA stepfamily is a family that grows when a parent marries someone new. It has a mom or dad, a new grown-up partner, and sometimes new brothers or sisters. You might live with them all in one house. The new grown-up is called a stepmom or stepdad. They love you and take care of you, just like your first family. Sometimes you visit one home and then another, and both places are your family.
Stepmother\n\nA stepmother is a woman who marries your dad after your mom is not with him anymore. She is part of your family now. She may live in your house and take care of you. She can read you stories, help you get dressed, and make you snacks. Sometimes she brings new brothers or sisters too. She is not the mom who gave birth to you, but she can love you just the same.
Steppe\n\nA steppe is a big, flat land with no trees. It has lots of grass and small bushes. You can find it in faraway places like Russia and Mongolia. People who live there move around with horses and animals. They live in big round tents that are easy to pack up. Cowboys in America also rode horses on a steppe to take care of cows.
Stethoscope\n\nA stethoscope is a tool that doctors use to listen to your body. It has a long tube that splits into two parts for the ears. At the other end is a round piece that the doctor puts on your chest or back. It helps the doctor hear your heartbeat and your breathing. When you go for a check-up, the doctor may use it to make sure your heart and lungs are healthy.
Stew\n\nA stew is a warm, thick food made in one big pot. It has small pieces of meat and soft vegetables all mixed together. People cook it slowly on the stove for a long time so everything gets very soft and tasty. You eat it with a spoon, and it feels cozy on a cold day. A stew is different from a casserole because a stew has no crunchy top and it cooks on the stove, not in the oven. Many countries have their own kind of stew, like Irish stew with lamb and potatoes. Your family might make a stew with beef, carrots, and peas.
Stick\n\nA stick is a long, thin piece of wood. It comes from a tree branch that has fallen down. You can find it on the ground in a park, a forest, or your backyard. A dog likes to pick it up and carry it in its mouth. A child can use it to draw in the dirt or to play a game. It can be short or long, and it feels hard and rough.
Stick insect\n\nA stick insect is a bug that looks just like a twig or a leaf. It has a long, thin body and six legs. It lives in trees and bushes in warm places. It stays very still during the day so birds and other animals cannot see it. When the wind blows, it sways back and forth like a real twig. It eats leaves at night. Some kinds can even change color to match the plant they sit on.
Sticker\n\nA sticker is a small flat picture with a sticky back. It can be a star, a heart, an animal, or a funny face. You peel it off a sheet and press it onto paper, a notebook, or a lunchbox. It stays there because the back is a little bit like glue. Kids like to collect stickers and trade them with friends. Some stickers shine or feel bumpy when you touch them.
Stickleback\n\nA stickleback is a small fish that lives in water. It has no scales, but some kinds have hard plates on their sides. It has sharp spines on its back that stand up to keep it safe. You can find it in rivers, lakes, and the sea in places like Europe, Asia, and North America. It eats tiny water bugs and baby fish. The boy fish builds a little nest from plants and sticky stuff from his body. He then dances to bring a girl fish to the nest. She lays eggs inside, and he watches over them until they hatch. Some sticklebacks are bold and try new things, while others are shy and hide.
Sticky\n\nSticky means something feels like glue or tape when you touch it. It can hold things together or make your fingers feel tacky. You find sticky things in many places, like a sticker on a paper or honey on a spoon. When you press two sticky things together, they stay put. A bandage is sticky so it can stay on your skin.
Stiff\n\nStiff means something is hard to bend or move. It does not wiggle or flop around. A new book with a hard cover is stiff. A piece of cardboard is stiff. When you try to fold it, it does not fold easily. Some clothes feel stiff before you wash them. If your neck feels stiff, it is hard to turn your head.
Still\n\nStill means not moving. When you sit very quiet and do not wiggle, you are still. A toy that is not rolling or shaking is still. Sometimes people say "be still" when they want you to stop moving for a little bit.
Stingray\n\nA stingray is a flat fish that lives in the sea. It has a long tail with a sharp point on it. The point can hurt if it feels scared, so it uses it only to stay safe. It hides under sand on the sea floor, with just its eyes and tail showing. It eats small animals like clams and shrimp. Some stingrays are as big as a blanket, and some are small. You might see one at an aquarium, gliding through the water like a bird.
Stinky\n\nStinky means something smells very bad. It is a word you use when your nose does not like a smell. You might find a stinky smell near a trash can or old food. A skunk makes a stinky spray when it is scared. Dirty socks that sit too long can get stinky too. When something is stinky, people often hold their nose and say "P.U.!".
Stir\n\nTo stir means to move a spoon or a stick around and around in a bowl or a cup. It mixes things together so they become one. You see it when someone makes cake batter or hot chocolate. It helps sugar melt into tea or milk. A grown-up might let you stir the soup to help with dinner.
Stoat\n\nA stoat is a small, furry animal. It has a long, thin body, short legs, and a tail with a black tip. Its fur is brown in summer and turns white in winter. It lives in cold places like forests and fields. It hunts small animals like mice and rabbits. It is very fast and can climb trees.
Stock\n\nA stock is a tiny piece of a big company. When you own it, you own a small part of that company. People buy and sell stocks at a special place called a market. If the company does well, the stock can be worth more money. If the company does not do well, it can be worth less. Some grown-ups save money by buying stocks for a long time.
Stock exchange\n\nA stock exchange is a big market where people buy and sell tiny pieces of big companies. It can be a real building with a loud floor, or it can be a place on computers. People go there to trade these pieces, which are called shares. When a company does well, its shares can become worth more. A long time ago, the market broke and many people lost their money. That made a very hard time for everyone.
Stockholm\n\nStockholm is a big city in a country called Sweden. It is built on many small islands, so there is water all around it. Many bridges connect the islands so cars and people can go from one to another. The oldest part of the city is called Gamla Stan, which means Old Town. There, you can see old houses and small streets. People visit Stockholm to see museums, parks, and boats on the water.
Stocking\n\nA stocking is a long, soft sock. It is often red and white, with a fuzzy top. People hang it by the fireplace at Christmas time. Santa Claus fills it with small toys and candy while children sleep. In the morning, kids run to see what is inside it.
Stomach\n\nYour stomach is a soft bag inside your body, right below your chest. It is part of the path food takes after you eat. When you swallow, food goes down a tube and lands in your stomach. It holds the food and mixes it with special juices that break the food into tiny bits. This helps your body get the good stuff from the food later. Sometimes your stomach can feel upset and make you throw up. You can call it your tummy or belly.
Stone\n\nA stone is a hard, small piece of rock. It can be gray, brown, white, or many other colors. You find stones on the ground, in a park, or near a river. People use stones to build walls or to make paths. A child might pick up a smooth stone and keep it in a pocket.
Stone Age\n\nThe Stone Age is a very, very old time when people made tools from stone. It started long before your grandma's grandma was born. People used a hard kind of stone called flint to make sharp tools for cutting. They also made tools from wood and bone, but those did not last long. Stone Age people ate berries, fish, and big animals. They did not have stores, so they had to find all their food. Later, they learned to grow food and keep animals like cows and pigs. The Stone Age ended when people learned to make tools from metal instead.
Stonehenge\n\nStonehenge is a very old circle of big stones. It stands in a field in England. The stones are tall and heavy, and some have a stone on top. People put them there a long, long time ago. No one is sure why they built it. On the longest day of the year, the sun comes up right between two stones. Many people visit it to look and wonder.
Stool\n\nA stool is a small seat for one person. It has a flat top to sit on and three or four legs to hold it up. You can find a stool in a kitchen, at a counter, or in a classroom. It does not have a back or arms like a big chair. A child might use a stool to reach a high sink or to sit and draw at a table.
Stop\n\nStop means to not move anymore. When you are walking and you stop, your feet stay still. A red light on the street tells cars to stop. In a game of freeze dance, the music stops and everyone must stop moving. It is the opposite of go.
Store\n\nA store is a place where you can buy things. It has shelves with food, toys, clothes, and other items. You can find a store on a street or in a big building. People go to a store to pick what they need and pay with money. A grocery store sells food like milk, bread, and apples. A toy store sells dolls, blocks, and games.
Stork\n\nA stork is a big bird with long legs and a long beak. It has white feathers and some black on its wings. It lives near water, like a pond or a lake. It walks in the water to catch frogs, crabs, and small fish. Some storks fly far away when the weather gets cold. A stork builds a very big nest high up on a roof or a tall tree. Many people know a story that a stork brings new babies to families.
Storm\n\nA storm is wild weather with strong wind and lots of rain. It can also have bright flashes called lightning and loud booms called thunder. Sometimes small balls of ice fall from the sky during a storm. You see a storm outside when the sky turns dark and the wind blows hard. It can make trees shake and puddles grow big. People stay inside to keep safe and dry. After the storm, the air feels cool and clean.
Story\n\nA story is a set of words that tells about something that happened. It can be about a real thing or a made-up thing. You can find it in a book, on a screen, or hear it from a grown-up. It has a start, a middle, and an end. A bedtime story is one you hear before you go to sleep.
Storybook\n\nA storybook is a book full of made-up tales. It has many pages with words and bright pictures. You can find it on a shelf at home, in a library, or in a classroom. A grown-up or a big kid reads the words out loud, and you look at the pictures. It tells about animals that talk, brave children, or funny adventures. A bedtime storybook helps you feel cozy before sleep.
Stove\n\nA stove is a big, hot box that helps you cook food. It has a flat top where you put pots and pans. Under the top, there is a small room called an oven for baking bread and cookies. You find it in the kitchen at home. When you turn it on, it gets very hot, so you must never touch it. Mom or Dad uses it to make yummy meals like soup or cake.
Straight\n\nStraight means something is not bent or curved. It looks like a line you draw with a ruler. A pencil can be straight, and a road can be straight too. When you stand up tall, your back is straight. It is the opposite of wiggly or round.
Strainer\n\nA strainer is a kitchen tool with many small holes. It looks like a bowl with a handle. You use it to separate water from food. For example, when you wash grapes, you put them in a strainer so the water runs out and the grapes stay in. It can also help when you make spaghetti to keep the noodles and let the water go away.
Strait\n\nA strait is a thin path of water between two big pieces of land. It joins two bigger bodies of water, like two seas. Big boats use it to carry things from one place to another. A strait is not like a river because the water does not flow one way. Many people know about the Strait of Gibraltar, which sits between Spain and Africa.
Strait of Magellan\n\nThe Strait of Magellan is a long, narrow path of water. It connects two big oceans, the Atlantic and the Pacific. It sits at the very bottom of South America, near a cold, windy place called Tierra del Fuego. Ships use it to travel between the oceans without going all the way around the tip. The water is often covered in thick fog and strong winds blow there. A long time ago, a man named Magellan sailed through it first, so it got his name.
Strait of Malacca\n\nThe Strait of Malacca is a long, narrow piece of water. It sits between two big pieces of land. It joins two bigger seas together. Big boats use it to carry things from one place to another. It is a very busy water road. Many people from different lands have used it for a long, long time.
Straits of Florida\n\nThe Straits of Florida is a long, narrow path of water. It sits between the Florida Keys and the island of Cuba. It joins two big bodies of water: the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean. Big boats and ships use it to travel from one side to the other. The water is deep and blue, and you can see it on a map near the bottom of Florida.
Strange\n\nStrange means something is not like the things you see every day. It can look funny, sound odd, or feel weird. You might find a strange toy that makes a noise you never heard before. A strange animal might have very long ears or bright blue fur. When you see a strange cloud in the sky, it might have a shape like a dragon. Strange things can make you stop and look twice.
Straw\n\nA straw is a long, thin tube. It is usually made of paper or plastic. You find it in a cup of juice or milk at a restaurant or at home. You put one end in your mouth and suck to drink. It helps you sip without spilling. Some straws are straight, and some bend at the top.
Strawberry\n\nA strawberry is a small red fruit that tastes sweet. It has tiny yellow dots on the outside that look like seeds. It grows on a short plant close to the ground. People pick it in the spring and summer to eat. You can put it in a bowl with milk, or on top of a cake. It is soft and juicy when you bite it.
Stream\n\nA stream is a small, thin river of water. It flows over rocks and dirt, making a soft, happy sound. You can find it in a forest or a park, running down a hill. Little fish and frogs sometimes live in it. On a hot day, you can take off your shoes and feel the cool water on your feet.
Street\n\nA street is a long, flat road in a town or city. It is made of hard gray stuff like stone or tar. Cars, buses, and bikes drive on it. People walk on the side part called a sidewalk. You can see streets outside your house or near the park. Many streets have trees, lights, and signs to help people find their way.
Stress (biology)\n\nStress is a feeling you get when something is hard or scary. It can make your heart beat fast and your tummy feel tight. You might feel it before a big test or when you have to try something new. A little bit of it can help you try your best, but too much can make you feel sick or sad. When you feel it, you can take a break, play outside, or talk to a grown-up. A hug from someone you love can also help it go away.
Stretch\n\nStretch means to make something longer or wider by pulling it gently. You can stretch your arms up high above your head. A rubber band gets longer when you stretch it. After you sit for a long time, it feels good to stand up and stretch your body. Some clothes stretch when you pull them, like a soft sweater.
Stretchy\n\nStretchy means something can get longer or wider when you pull it, and then it goes back to its old shape. A rubber band is stretchy. You can pull it far, and it snaps back. Some clothes are stretchy too, like socks and leggings. They feel soft and move with your body. When you play with slime, it is stretchy and fun to pull.
String\n\nA string is a very thin, long piece of something. It can be made of cotton, wool, or plastic. You can find it in a drawer at home or in a craft box. People use it to tie things together, like a bow on a present or a shoe. A kite needs a string to fly high in the sky.
String instrument\n\nA string instrument is a thing that makes music with strings. It has long, thin strings that shake to make sound. You can find it in a band or an orchestra. People play it by pulling a bow across the strings or by plucking them with fingers. A violin is a small string instrument that you hold under your chin. A guitar is another one that you strum with your hand. When you hear a soft, pretty song, it might be a string instrument playing.
Strip\n\nA strip is a long, thin piece of something. It can be made of paper, cloth, or plastic. You might see a strip of tape holding two papers together. A strip of cloth can be used as a bandage for a small cut. Sometimes people cut a strip of fruit leather to eat as a snack.
Stripe\n\nA stripe is a long, thin line of color. It can be straight or a little wavy. You see stripes on many things, like a zebra with black and white stripes, or a candy cane with red and white stripes. Some shirts and socks have stripes too. A stripe is often next to other stripes, making a pattern.
Stroke\n\nA stroke is when a part of the brain gets hurt because blood cannot reach it. It happens when a tiny tube in the brain gets blocked or breaks. When that part of the brain stops working, the person may not be able to move one side of their body. They may have trouble talking or seeing. A stroke is very serious and needs a doctor right away. To help spot a stroke, remember to check the face, arms, and speech. If one side of the face droops, one arm cannot lift, or words sound funny, call for help fast.
Strong\n\nStrong means you can push, pull, or lift heavy things without getting tired. It is like when you carry a big bag of toys all by yourself. Some animals are strong too, like a bear or an elephant. You get strong by eating good food, sleeping well, and playing outside. When you are strong, you can help your friends move a heavy chair or open a tight jar lid.
Strong Interaction\n\nA strong interaction is a very strong pull that holds tiny bits together. It works inside the smallest parts of everything around us. You cannot see it, but it keeps things from falling apart. It is like a super strong glue that only works when things are very, very close. Without it, the tiny bits that make up you and me would not stay together.
Structure\n\nA structure is something that people build. It can be big like a house or small like a chair. It has parts that hold it up so it does not fall down. You see structures every day, like the school you go to or the bridge over the water. People use structures to live in, work in, or play on. A table is a structure that holds your food when you eat.
Student\n\nA student is a person who goes to school to learn new things. They sit at a desk and listen to the teacher. They learn about letters, numbers, and the world around them. A student may carry a backpack with books and a lunchbox inside. They play with friends at recess and draw pictures in class. You are a student when you are in your classroom.
Study\n\nA study is a quiet room where you can read and think. It has a desk, a chair, and shelves with books. You find it in a house or a school. People use it to do homework or learn new things. When you sit at the desk, you can draw or look at a picture book.
Stuff\n\nStuff is a word for many things when you do not say each one. It can be toys, clothes, or food all mixed together. You might see stuff in your room, like blocks and books on the floor. People say "pick up your stuff" when they want you to put things away. It is a quick way to talk about a group of things without naming them all.
Stuffed toy\n\nA stuffed toy is a soft, cuddly friend. It is made from cloth and filled with fluffy stuff inside. It can look like a bear, a bunny, or a funny character from a show. You can hug it, hold it close, and take it to bed at night. Many children get one as a gift on a birthday or a special day. It feels warm and safe when you squeeze it tight.
Sturgeon\n\nA sturgeon is a big fish that lives in rivers and lakes. It has a long body, a pointy nose, and a tail that is not the same on top and bottom. Its skin has hard, bumpy plates instead of normal fish scales. It swims near the bottom of the water and eats small things it finds in the mud. Some people catch it for its eggs, which are called caviar. A sturgeon can grow very, very big—bigger than a grown-up person.
Style\n\nStyle is the way something looks or is done. It is the special shape, color, or pattern that makes one thing different from another. You can see style in clothes, like a dress with flowers or a shirt with stripes. It is also in hair, like long braids or short curls. When you draw a picture, your style is the way you make lines and pick colors. Everyone has their own style, and that is what makes things fun and new.
Sub-Saharan Africa\n\nSub-Saharan Africa is a big part of the world. It is the land below a huge sandy desert called the Sahara. Many countries are there, like Kenya and South Africa. It has hot weather, big grassy fields, and many wild animals like lions and elephants. People there speak many different languages and play drums. Some children walk to school under the hot sun.
Subatomic Particle\n\nA subatomic particle is a tiny, tiny piece that makes up everything around us. It is so small you cannot see it, even with a strong magnifying glass. It lives inside atoms, which are the building blocks of all things. Some of them help hold the atom together, and others move around very fast. One kind you may have heard of is an electron, which helps make lights turn on.
Subculture\n\nA subculture is a group of people who share the same fun things. They like the same music, clothes, or games. You can find them in clubs, parks, or online. They have their own special words and ways to say hello. For example, skateboarders are a subculture. They wear cool shoes and do tricks at the skate park.
Subject\n\nA subject is a thing you learn about at school. It can be numbers, letters, or how things grow. You have a subject like reading, where you look at words and say them out loud. Another subject is art, where you draw and paint with bright colors. Every day your teacher picks a subject and you all learn something new together.
Submarine\n\nA submarine is a boat that can go under the water. It has a long, round body and a tall part on top called a sail. You can find it in the big, deep ocean. People use it to look at fish and plants under the sea, or to keep countries safe. Some submarines are very big and can stay under the water for a long time. You might see a small toy submarine in a bathtub or a pool.
Subsidy\n\nA subsidy is money that a government gives to help people or businesses. It helps keep the price of something low so more people can buy it. For example, a bus ride might cost less because the government gives money to the bus company. Sometimes farmers get a subsidy so food stays cheap at the store. It is like a helping hand from the government to make things easier for everyone.
Subsistence farming\n\nSubsistence farming is when a family grows food only for themselves. They have a small piece of land and grow just enough to eat. They do not have extra food to sell or trade. Sometimes they also keep a few animals like chickens or goats. If the weather is bad and the plants do not grow well, the family may not have enough food. This kind of farming happens in places where people do not have big machines or a lot of money.
Substance\n\nA substance is what something is made of. It can be a hard thing like a rock, a wet thing like water, or a light thing like air. You can see it, touch it, or feel it all around you. A toy is made of a substance called plastic. A spoon can be made of a metal substance. Water is a substance you drink every day.
Subtract\n\nSubtract means to take away. When you have five blocks and you take two away, you subtract. It makes the group smaller. You can use your fingers to subtract. If you have three cookies and you eat one, you subtract one cookie. Now you have two cookies left.
Subtraction\n\nSubtraction is taking one number away from another number. It helps you find how many are left. You use it when you eat some of your cookies and want to know how many you still have. For example, if you have 5 blocks and you give away 2 blocks, you have 3 blocks left. That is subtraction.
Suburb\n\nA suburb is a part of a city that is a little far from the busy center. It has many houses, schools, and small shops. The houses are not too close together, so there is room for gardens and parks. Many families live in a suburb because it is quiet and has space to play. People who live there often ride a bus, train, or car to go to work in the big city.
Subway\n\nA subway is a train that runs under the ground. It has many cars joined together, and it stops at stations. People ride it in big cities to go to work, school, or the park. It is fast and does not get stuck in car traffic. You can see it when you go down stairs at a subway station.
Success\n\nSuccess is when you try hard and get what you want. It feels happy and bright, like a big smile. You can find it when you learn to tie your shoes or count to ten. It happens when you keep trying, even if it is hard at first. A child feels success when they finish a puzzle all by themselves.
Such\n\nSuch is a word we use to talk about something that is a lot or very much. It helps us say how big, small, happy, or sad a thing is. You might hear it in a sentence like "I had such a fun day at the park." It makes the feeling stronger. We use it when we want to show that something is special or more than usual.
Sudan\n\nSudan is a big country in Africa. It has hot, dry land and a long river called the Nile. Many people live in the main city, Khartoum. They speak Arabic and follow the religion of Islam. A long time ago, Sudan was the biggest country in Africa, but now it is smaller because part of it became a new country. Some places in Sudan have fighting, and many people had to leave their homes.
Sue\n\nSue is when you ask a grown-up to make someone follow the rules. It happens when one person says another person did something wrong. A judge in a big room with a high desk listens to both sides. The judge decides what is fair. Sometimes one person has to give money to the other person. You might hear about it on the news or in a story.
Suez Canal\n\nThe Suez Canal is a long, narrow water path in Egypt. It looks like a big blue line on a map. It connects two big seas, so boats can go from one sea to the other without going all the way around Africa. Big ships use it to carry toys, food, and other things from faraway places. It saves a lot of time and fuel. Many ships go through it every day.
Suffrage\n\nSuffrage is the right to vote. It means a person can pick who gets to be in charge. Long ago, only some people could do it. Now, in most places, all grown-ups can vote no matter what they look like. It also can mean the right to try to be a leader yourself. When you raise your hand in class to pick a game, that is a little bit like suffrage.
Sugar\n\nSugar is a sweet thing we eat. It looks like tiny white or brown grains. You find it in candy, cake, cookies, and fruit. People use it to make food taste sweet. A child might see sugar on top of a cookie or in a bowl at breakfast.
Sugar beet\n\nA sugar beet is a plant that grows in the ground. It has a big, round root that is white or light brown. Farmers grow it in big fields. The root has sweet juice inside. People take the juice out and turn it into the white sugar you see at home. You might eat sugar from a sugar beet in cookies or cake.
Sugarcane\n\nSugarcane is a tall plant that grows in hot, sunny places. It looks like a thick green stick with long leaves at the top. Farmers grow it in big fields where there is lots of water and warm weather. Inside the stick there is sweet juice. People squeeze the juice out and use it to make sugar. The sugar makes food and drinks taste sweet. After the juice is gone, the dry parts can be burned to make heat or turned into paper and cups. You may have seen sugar at home in a bowl or a bag.
Suit\n\nA suit is a set of clothes that match. It has a jacket and pants made from the same cloth. People wear it to look neat and dressed up. You might see a suit at a wedding, a party, or when someone goes to work in a big office. Sometimes a suit has a vest too. It can be black, blue, gray, or other colors.
Sum\n\nA sum is what you get when you put numbers together. It is the answer when you add things. If you have two apples and your friend gives you one more, the sum is three apples. You can find a sum by counting all the things in a group. It helps you know how many you have in all.
Sumatra\n\nSumatra is a big island in the country of Indonesia. It has tall mountains, thick green forests, and long rivers. Many animals live there, like elephants, tigers, and funny monkeys with long noses. People grow rice, coffee, and rubber trees on the island. Some parts have sandy beaches next to the blue ocean.
Sumer\n\nSumer is a very old place where people lived a long, long time ago. It was near two big rivers. People there built the first big cities with tall buildings made of mud bricks. They also made one of the first ways of writing by pressing marks into soft clay. Today, you can see old things from Sumer in big museums.
Summer\n\nSummer is the hottest time of the year. It is one of four seasons. In many places, the sun shines bright and the days are long. You can go to the beach, play in the water, and eat cold treats like ice cream. Trees have green leaves and flowers bloom. Some places get a lot of rain in summer, and some places stay dry. People wear light clothes like shorts and t-shirts. It is a fun time to play outside with friends.
Summer Olympic Games\n\nThe Summer Olympic Games is a big sports party that happens every four years. It is held in a different city each time, and people from many countries come to play. They run, jump, swim, and do many other sports. The best players get shiny gold, silver, or bronze medals. You can watch it on TV and see the bright rings and the torch that burns the whole time.
Sumo\n\nSumo is a sport from Japan. It is a game where two big people push each other. They stand in a round ring on the floor. The ring is small, like a big rug. Each person tries to push the other out of the ring. They also try to make the other touch the ground with any part of the body except the feet. The people who play this sport are very strong and heavy. They wear a thick belt and nothing else. You can see sumo on TV sometimes. It looks like a big, slow dance, but it is very strong.
Sun\n\nThe Sun is a big, bright star in the sky. It looks like a round, yellow ball of light. You see it up high during the day. It gives us light and warmth so we can play outside. Plants use its light to grow, and we need its heat to stay cozy.
Sunbird\n\nA sunbird is a tiny bird with a long, thin bill that bends down. It has bright, shiny feathers that sparkle in the sun. Many sunbirds have long tails. They live in warm places near the middle of the world. They fly to flowers to sip sweet juice called nectar. They also eat tiny bugs and spiders. A sunbird can hang in the air like a little helicopter, but it often sits on a branch to eat.
Sunday\n\nSunday is a day of the week. It comes after Saturday and before Monday. Many people do not go to work or school on this day. It is often a day to rest, play, or spend time with family. Some families go to a special building called a church on Sunday morning. You might sleep a little later and eat a big breakfast.
Sundial\n\nA sundial is a tool that shows the time using the sun. It has a flat part with numbers and a stick that stands up. When the sun shines, the stick makes a dark shadow on the flat part. The shadow moves as the sun moves across the sky. You can look at where the shadow falls to know what time it is. People long ago used sundials before clocks were made. You might see one in a garden or a park.
Sunflower\n\nA sunflower is a tall plant with a big, round flower on top. It has a thick green stem and many small yellow parts that look like petals. The middle of the flower is dark and full of tiny seeds. Sunflowers grow in gardens and fields where the sun shines bright. People eat the seeds as a snack, and they also make oil from the seeds for cooking. Sometimes you see sunflowers in a vase at home, and they make the room feel happy and warm.
Sunlight\n\nSunlight is the bright light that comes from the sun. It looks yellow and warm, and it makes the day bright. You see it outside when the sky is blue and the sun is up. It helps plants grow tall and green. It also warms your skin when you play outside. Without it, the world would be dark and cold.
Sunni\n\nSunni is a big group of people who follow the religion of Islam. They believe in one God, called Allah, and follow the teachings of a man named Muhammad. They pray in special buildings called mosques, often with rugs on the floor. Many Sunni people live in countries like Egypt, Turkey, and Pakistan. They have a special month called Ramadan when they do not eat during the day.
Sunni Islam\n\nSunni Islam is a big group of people who follow the religion of Islam. They believe in one God, called Allah, and follow the teachings of a man named Muhammad. They pray five times a day and read a holy book called the Quran. Many of them go to a special building called a mosque to pray together. You can find Sunni Muslims in many countries all over the world.
Sunny\n\nSunny means the sky is bright and the sun is shining. It feels warm on your skin when you go outside. You see a big yellow circle up high in the blue sky. On a sunny day, you can play at the park, ride your bike, or have a picnic. Flowers open up and turn toward the light. It makes people feel happy and full of energy.
Sunset\n\nA sunset is when the sun goes down at the end of the day. It makes the sky turn pretty colors like orange, pink, and purple. You can see it outside in the evening, just before it gets dark. The sun looks big and soft, and it slowly hides behind the trees or houses. Many people like to watch it because it is calm and beautiful.
Sunshine\n\nSunshine is the bright light and warm feeling that comes from the sun. It looks like yellow rays that shine down from the sky. You can see it outside on a clear day, and it makes everything look bright and happy. It helps plants grow tall and keeps us warm. When you play at the park on a sunny day, you feel the sunshine on your skin.
Super\n\nSuper means very, very good or very, very big. When something is super, it is better than just good. You might say a toy is super fun, or a cake is super yummy. A superhero is a person in a story who is super strong and helps people. You can use the word super to talk about anything that makes you really happy.
Supercomputer\n\nA supercomputer is a very, very fast computer. It is much bigger than the computer at home or school. It has many tiny parts inside that all work together. Scientists use it to guess the weather, to look at stars, and to solve hard puzzles. You might see a picture of one in a book about big machines.
Supergiant\n\nA supergiant is a huge, bright star in the night sky. It is much bigger than our Sun. Some are blue, some are red, and a few are yellow. It shines because it is very old and has used up most of its inside fuel. When it runs out of fuel, it can blow up in a big flash called a supernova. You can see some supergiants with just your eyes on a clear night.
Superhero\n\nA superhero is a made-up person who helps others and fights bad people. It often wears a bright, colorful suit and a mask to hide its face. You can find superheroes in comic books, cartoons, and movies. It uses special powers like flying or being very strong to save the day. Some superheroes do not have powers but use their brains and training to be heroes. For example, you might see a superhero like Spider-Man swinging between tall buildings to stop a robber.
Supermarket\n\nA supermarket is a big store that sells food and things for your home. It has many parts, like a part for fruits and vegetables, a part for milk and cheese, and a part for meat. You can find it in a town or city, and people go there to buy what they need to eat and clean. You push a cart and pick things from the shelves, then pay at the front. Sometimes you see a supermarket with a big red sign or one near your house.
Supernatural\n\nSupernatural means something that is not part of nature. It is like magic or a ghost. Some people think it is real, but science cannot show it. You might see it in a story or a movie. A fairy in a book is an example.
Supernova\n\nA supernova is a big star that blows up. It looks like a very bright light in the sky, brighter than a whole group of stars. You can see it far away in space, but not with just your eyes—people use big telescopes. It makes a huge cloud of gas and dust that spreads out. After it blows up, it can leave behind a tiny, heavy star or a black hole. A long time ago, people saw one in the sky and drew pictures of it.
Superstition\n\nA superstition is a belief that something brings good luck or bad luck. It is not based on real proof. Many people have superstitions about things they see every day. Some think a black cat crossing your path brings bad luck. Others think finding a four-leaf clover brings good luck. Some people knock on wood to keep bad things away. Superstitions are like little stories people tell to feel safe or lucky.
Supply\n\nSupply means how much of something we have. It is the amount of things like food, toys, or water that people can use. When a store has many apples, the supply of apples is big. When there are only a few apples left, the supply is small. Farmers grow food to keep the supply full. Mom and Dad buy things from the store to add to the supply at home.
Supply And Demand\n\nSupply is how much of a thing there is. Demand is how much people want that thing. When many people want a toy but there are only a few, the toy costs more. When there are many toys but few people want them, the toy costs less. You see this at a store when a popular snack runs out fast.
Support group\n\nA support group is a small circle of people who help each other feel better. It meets in a quiet room, like at a library or a doctor's office. In it, people sit together and talk about sad or hard things. They listen and give kind words. It helps them feel less alone. Sometimes a grown-up leader guides the talk. It is a safe place to share feelings.
Sure\n\nSure means yes or okay. When someone asks you a question and you want to say yes, you can say sure. It is a short and friendly word. You might hear your friend say sure when you ask to play. You can also use it when you agree to help someone. It is a nice way to show you are happy to do something.
Surf\n\nSurf is the white, bubbly water that rolls onto the sand at the beach. It comes from big waves in the ocean. When a wave gets close to the shore, it breaks and turns into surf. It makes a loud, happy sound as it splashes. You can play in it and feel it tickle your toes. Some people ride on it with a flat board called a surfboard.
Surface\n\nA surface is the top part of something you can touch. It can be flat like a table, bumpy like a rock, or soft like a blanket. You find surfaces everywhere — the floor you walk on, the wall you touch, and the water in a lake. When you draw, you put your paper on a flat surface. A slide at the playground has a smooth surface that helps you go down fast.
Surface tension\n\nSurface tension is a kind of skin on top of water. It is very thin and you cannot see it, but it is strong. You can find it on any puddle, pond, or cup of water. It holds water drops in a round ball shape. It also lets tiny bugs walk on water without sinking. When you fill a cup too full, the water makes a bump at the top. That bump is held by surface tension.
Surfboard\n\nA surfboard is a long, flat board that people use to ride on ocean waves. It is usually made of light foam or wood and has a smooth, shiny top. You find it at the beach, where big waves roll in. A person lies on it, paddles out, then stands up to slide across the water. It can be short or long, and some have bright colors or pictures on them. Many kids see surfboards in movies or at the seaside.
Surfing\n\nSurfing is a fun sport you do in the ocean. It uses a long, flat board called a surfboard. A person stands or lies on it and rides on top of a big wave as it moves toward the beach. You need strong arms to paddle out into the water and quick feet to stand up. Many people surf in warm places like Hawaii. It feels like sliding down a hill made of water.
Surgery\n\nSurgery is when a doctor fixes something inside your body. The doctor makes a small cut to reach the part that needs help. You are given special medicine so you sleep and feel no pain. After surgery, you rest in bed until the cut heals. Sometimes you get a bandage or stitches. It helps you feel better when medicine alone cannot fix the problem.
Suriname\n\nSuriname is a country in South America. It is a warm place with many rivers and green trees. You can find it on a map next to Guyana and French Guiana. Many people there speak Dutch, and the biggest city is called Paramaribo. People in Suriname grow food like sugar and dig up a shiny rock called bauxite. They also sell gold and oil to other countries. Children go to school until they are twelve years old.
Surprise\n\nA surprise is something you did not know was going to happen. It can be a happy feeling when someone gives you a gift you did not expect. It can also be a little scary if something jumps out fast. You might feel a surprise at a birthday party when everyone yells "Happy Birthday!" Your eyes get big and your mouth might open wide. A surprise can make you laugh or jump.
Surprise (emotion)\n\nSurprise is a feeling you get when something happens that you did not think would happen. It can make your eyes open wide and your mouth drop open. You might feel it when a friend jumps out and yells "Boo!" at a party. It can be a happy feeling, like when you get a gift you did not know about. It can also be a scared feeling, like when a loud horn beeps right behind you. The feeling goes away fast, but it makes your heart beat a little quicker for a moment.
Surrealism\n\nSurrealism is a way of making art that feels like a dream. It shows things that do not usually go together, like a clock melting on a tree. You can find it in paintings, movies, and stories. It makes people feel surprised or curious because it mixes real things in strange new ways. For example, you might see a picture of a train coming out of a fireplace. Artists who make surreal art want to show the funny and odd ideas that come from deep inside our minds.
Surveillance\n\nSurveillance is watching people or things to keep them safe or to learn about them. It can be done with cameras that sit on walls or poles. You might see a camera in a store or on a street corner. It helps grown-ups know what is happening, like when a police officer watches a camera to stop bad things. Sometimes it uses tiny hidden tools to listen to sounds. A big example is a camera that watches a baby while she sleeps.
Sushi\n\nSushi is a food from Japan. It is made with special rice that is a little sticky and a little sour. The rice is often shaped into a small block or rolled up. On top or inside, there is usually a piece of raw fish, like salmon or tuna. Sometimes it has cooked shrimp, egg, or crunchy vegetables like cucumber. A dark green sheet called seaweed can be wrapped around the outside. People dip it in a dark, salty sauce before eating. You can find it in small shops with a moving belt that carries plates of it around the room.
Sustainability\n\nSustainability means taking care of what we have so it lasts a long, long time. It is about using things like water, trees, and food in a way that does not run out. People think about the future when they make choices today. For example, turning off the light when you leave a room saves power for later. Planting a new tree after cutting one down is another way. It helps keep the Earth happy and full of good things for all kids, even when they grow up.
Sustainable development\n\nSustainable development is a way to make life better for people today without hurting the world for people tomorrow. It has three big parts: taking care of nature, making sure people have jobs and money, and helping everyone get along. You can see it when a town builds a new park with trees and a playground. It also happens when people fix old houses so families can live in them safely. Another example is when a school teaches kids how to grow food in a garden. All these things help people now and keep the Earth happy for later.
Swahili\n\nSwahili is a way people talk to each other. It is a language with many words and sounds. Many people in Africa use it every day. You can hear it in songs, stories, and when friends say hello. Some kids learn it at home from their family.
Swallow\n\nA swallow is a small bird that flies very fast. It has a tiny beak, long pointy wings, and a tail that looks like a fork. You can see it flying high in the sky, catching bugs to eat. It builds a mud nest under bridges or on the side of a house. In spring and summer, it zooms around fields and ponds. When it gets cold, it flies far away to a warm place.
Swallowtail butterfly\n\nA swallowtail butterfly is a big, pretty insect with wings. It has two wings on each side, and the back wings often have a little tail that looks like a fork. You can see it in gardens, parks, and fields when the weather is warm. It flies from flower to flower to drink sweet juice. Its wings can be yellow, black, blue, or many other bright colors. Some are as big as a child's hand.
Swamp\n\nA swamp is a wet, muddy place with lots of trees and water. It has soft, spongy ground that is often covered with shallow water. You can find it near big rivers or warm coasts. Many birds and animals live there and build their nests. It helps clean water and stops big floods. A swamp is like a giant, wet forest where frogs croak and fish swim.
Swan\n\nA swan is a big white bird that lives on water. It has a long neck, big feet, and wide wings. You can see it on ponds, lakes, and rivers. It swims on top of the water and eats plants and small bugs from the bottom. A baby swan is called a cygnet. It is very strong and keeps its nest safe from other animals. Most swans are white, but some are black with a red beak. In winter, many swans fly to warmer places to have their babies.
Sweat\n\nSweat is water that comes out of your skin when you are hot. It looks like tiny wet drops on your arms, face, or back. You feel it when you run fast, play outside on a sunny day, or feel nervous. It helps your body stay cool, like a fan inside you. After it dries, your skin may feel a little sticky. You can wash it off with soap and water.
Sweater\n\nA sweater is a warm piece of clothing you wear on the top part of your body. It is soft and made of thick, fuzzy threads. You put it on when it is cold outside. It has two long parts for your arms and a hole for your head. Some sweaters have buttons or a zipper in the front. You can wear it to school, to play outside, or when you curl up on the couch. Mom or Dad might help you pull it over your head. It keeps you cozy like a hug.
Sweden\n\nSweden is a country in the north of Europe. It has many trees, big lakes, and a long coast by the sea. It is next to Norway and Finland. In the north, it is very cold and snowy. In the south, it is warmer. Many people live in cities like Stockholm, which is the biggest city. Sweden has a king, but the people choose leaders to make rules. The people speak Swedish. They like to play soccer and ice hockey. They also sing and dance to pop music. A long time ago, Sweden had many wars, but now it is a peaceful place.
Swedish language\n\nSwedish is a way of talking and writing that many people use. It sounds a little like singing, with up-and-down tones. Most people who speak it live in a country called Sweden, and some live in a part of Finland. It is a cousin to English, so a few words sound almost the same. Swedish has three extra letters that English does not have: Å, Ä, and Ö. They look like A and O with small marks on top. When you see a Swedish book, you might spot these funny letters on the page.
Sweep\n\nA sweep is when you move a broom to clean the floor. It pushes dust and little bits into one pile. You can sweep a room, a porch, or a sidewalk. After you sweep, you use a dustpan to pick up the pile and throw it away. It makes the floor look nice and tidy.
Sweet\n\nSweet is a taste that makes your mouth happy. It is the taste of sugar, honey, and candy. You find it in fruits like apples, bananas, and strawberries. Many people eat sweet things for a treat after a meal. A birthday cake is sweet, and so is a lollipop. Too much sweet food is not good for your teeth, so you brush them after.
Sweet potato\n\nA sweet potato is a root that grows under the ground. It has brown or orange skin and is yellow or orange inside. You can find it at the grocery store or in a garden. People cook it and eat it as a warm, soft food. It tastes sweet and is good for your body. You might eat it at dinner with butter on top.
Sweetie\n\nSweetie is a warm, kind word you say to someone you love. It is a name you call a person when you feel close and happy with them. You might hear a mom or dad say, "Good morning, sweetie" when you wake up. A grandma might say, "Come here, sweetie" and give you a big hug. It is not a real name like Sam or Lily, but a soft, loving word. When someone calls you sweetie, it means they think you are very special and dear to them.
Swift\n\nA swift is a small bird that flies very fast. It has long, curved wings and a tail shaped like a V. You can see it high in the sky, swooping and turning to catch bugs. It spends almost all its life in the air, even sleeping while flying. Its tiny feet are weak, so it clings to walls or cliffs instead of standing on the ground. In spring, it flies to warm places like Europe, and when it gets cold, it travels to Africa. Some swifts build cup-shaped nests from mud and spit in corners of houses or caves.
Swim\n\nSwim means to move your body through water. You use your arms and legs to push the water and go forward. People swim in pools, lakes, or the ocean. It is a fun way to play and stay cool on a hot day. Some people swim fast in races, and others just splash and float. You can learn to swim with a grown-up helping you.
Swimmer\n\nA swimmer is a person who moves through water. They use their arms and legs to push the water and go forward. You can see swimmers at a pool, a lake, or the ocean. Some swimmers race each other to see who is fastest. Others swim just for fun or to stay cool on a hot day. A swimmer might wear goggles to see underwater and a swimsuit that dries fast.
Swimming\n\nSwimming is moving your body through water. It uses your arms and legs to push the water and go forward. You can swim in a big pool, in the sea, or in a lake. People swim to have fun, to stay strong, and to race. There are many ways to move in the water, like moving arms over the water or like a frog. Swimming makes your whole body work and helps you go for a long time without getting tired.
Swimming pool\n\nA swimming pool is a big bowl of water made for people to play and swim. It has clean, blue water that feels cool on a hot day. You can find it outside in a yard or inside a big building. People jump in, float, and splash around in it. Some pools have a slide or a diving board for extra fun. A pump and a filter help keep the water fresh and clear.
Swimsuit\n\nA swimsuit is a special set of clothes for swimming. It is made of thin, stretchy cloth that dries fast. You wear it at the pool, the beach, or a lake. It covers your body so you can splash and play in the water. Some swimsuits cover the whole middle, and some have two parts. After swimming, you should change into dry clothes so your skin stays happy.
Swing\n\nA swing is a seat that hangs from ropes or chains. It is tied to a strong bar or a tree branch up high. You find it at a playground or in a backyard. You sit on it and move your legs to go back and forth, up and down. It feels like flying a little bit. Many children love to swing high in the air.
Swish\n\nA swish is a soft, quick sound. It is like the noise when a broom moves across the floor, or when a basketball goes through the net without touching the rim. You can hear it when someone walks fast in a puffy coat, or when a tail wags through the air. It is a gentle, brushing sound that does not last long.
Switch\n\nA switch is a small thing you can move to turn something on or off. It is often a little button or a stick on the wall. You find it in your house, on a lamp, or on a toy. When you push it, it lets power flow so a light glows or a toy moves. When you push it again, the power stops and the light goes dark. A light switch in your room is one you see every day.
Switzerland\n\nSwitzerland is a country in Europe. It has tall mountains with snow on top, and many blue lakes. People speak different languages there, like German, French, and Italian. It is famous for chocolate, cheese, and clocks. Many people visit to ski and see the pretty mountains.
Sword\n\nA sword is a long, sharp tool for cutting. It has a flat, pointy blade and a part to hold called a handle. Long ago, people used it to fight before there were guns. Today, you can see it in sports where people wear safe suits and tap each other. Some swords are straight, and some are curved like a banana. A famous sword from a story is Excalibur, which a king pulled from a stone.
Swordfish\n\nA swordfish is a big fish that lives in the ocean. It has a long, flat nose that looks like a sword. Its body is smooth and round, and it swims very fast. The swordfish uses its sharp nose to hit other fish so it can eat them. People catch swordfish to cook and eat. The meat is often cut into flat pieces and cooked on a grill. Some swordfish meat is pink inside.
Sydney\n\nSydney is a big city by the sea in a faraway land called Australia. It has a famous white building with pointy roofs that looks like sails on a boat. You can see a tall bridge that curves over the water, and many people walk on it. The city has lots of sandy beaches where families swim and play. In one big park, you can visit animals from all over the world. At night, bright lights sometimes color the buildings and the sky.
Sydney Opera House\n\nThe Sydney Opera House is a big, special building in Sydney, Australia. It sits right by the water. It looks like a boat with big white sails. Many people go inside to watch shows with singing and music. It is a place that people from all over the world come to see.
Syllable\n\nA syllable is a small beat inside a word. It is one push of sound you make with your mouth. When you say "cat," that is one beat, so it has one syllable. When you say "kit-ten," that is two beats, so it has two syllables. You can clap your hands to count the beats in a word. Every word has at least one syllable. Some words are short, like "go," and some are long, like "el-e-phant."
Symbiosis\n\nSymbiosis is when two different living things stay together for a long time. It can be a big animal and a tiny bug, or two tiny things you cannot see. Sometimes both are happy and help each other. Sometimes only one is happy, and the other is not. You can find it in the ocean, in the woods, and even inside your own body. For example, a small fish cleans a big fish's teeth, and both get a good meal.
Symbol\n\nA symbol is a simple picture or shape that stands for something else. It can be a drawing, a color, or even a real thing. You see symbols every day. A red heart stands for love. A green light means go. Letters are symbols too — each one stands for a sound. A flag is a symbol for a whole country. Symbols help us share big ideas in a tiny way.
Symbolism\n\nSymbolism is when one thing stands for another thing. It is a way to show a big idea with a simple picture or object. For example, a heart shape can stand for love. A red light can stand for stop. You see symbolism in stories, songs, and art. It helps people share feelings without using many words.
Symmetry\n\nSymmetry is when something looks the same on both sides. It is like a mirror picture. If you draw a line down the middle of a shape, the left side and the right side match. You can find it in many places. A butterfly has it on its wings. A round cookie can have it if you turn it. A square tile on the floor has it too. When you fold a paper heart in half, the two sides fit just right.
Symphony\n\nA symphony is a long piece of music played by a big group of instruments called an orchestra. It has different parts, like chapters in a book, that sound fast or slow. People sit in a big hall to listen to it. A man named Haydn wrote many of them a long time ago, and other people still write them today. When you hear a symphony, you can feel happy, sad, or excited as the music changes.
Synagogue\n\nA synagogue is a special building where Jewish people go to pray. It has a big room for praying and smaller rooms for learning. Inside, there is a special closet called the Ark that holds the Torah scrolls. A person stands on a raised platform to read from the scrolls. Some synagogues have a curtain or a light that is always on. Jewish families may go there on Friday night or Saturday morning.
Syphon\n\nA syphon is a bent tube that moves water from one place to another. It looks like an upside-down letter U. You can find it in a garden or a fish tank. It lets water go up a little and then down a long way, all by itself. No pump is needed. The water falls down one side and pulls more water up the other side. A farmer might use it to give water to plants.
Syria\n\nSyria is a country far away. It sits next to the big blue sea and has tall hills. Many people live in big cities there. It has old stone houses and busy streets. A long time ago, people used a special alphabet to write. Today, children in Syria play soccer and swim. They also go to school to learn.
Syringe\n\nA syringe is a small tool that pushes liquid through a thin, sharp point. It has a hollow tube and a part you push with your thumb. You see it at the doctor's office or in a hospital. A nurse uses it to give medicine that goes right into your body. It is used only one time and then thrown away to keep everyone safe.
Syrup\n\nSyrup is a thick, sweet liquid. It is sticky and pours slowly. You find it on pancakes or waffles at breakfast. People pour it on top to make the food taste sweet. Maple syrup comes from a tree, and chocolate syrup comes from cocoa.
System\n\nA system is a group of things that work together. It can be something you can touch, like all the parts inside a toy car. Or it can be something you cannot touch, like a plan to share toys with friends. A system has parts that each do a job. When all the parts do their job, the whole thing works well. For example, your body is a system. Your heart, lungs, and stomach are parts that work together to keep you alive. Another example is the Solar System. It has the Sun and planets like Earth. They all move around the Sun together.
T-shirt\n\nA T-shirt is a soft shirt with short sleeves and no collar. It is shaped like the letter T when you lay it flat. You can find it in almost every closet. People wear it on warm days or under a jacket when it is cool. It comes in many colors, and sometimes it has a picture or words on the front.
Table\n\nA table is a piece of furniture with a flat top and legs. It has a smooth surface and usually four legs, though some have three or one big leg in the middle. You find it in kitchens, dining rooms, and classrooms. People use it to eat meals, draw pictures, do homework, or put things on top. A kitchen table is where a family sits together for breakfast.
Table (furniture)\n\nA table is a piece of furniture with a flat top and legs. It has a smooth top where you can put things. You find it in kitchens, dining rooms, and classrooms. People use it to eat meals, draw pictures, or play games. At home, you might sit at a table for breakfast with your family.
Table salt\n\nTable salt is tiny white bits that make food taste good. It looks like small clear or white grains. You find it in a shaker on the kitchen table. People sprinkle it on eggs, soup, and other foods to give them more flavor. It also helps keep some foods fresh for a long time. Salt comes from the big, big ocean or from deep under the ground.
Table tennis\n\nTable tennis is a fun game played on a table. It uses a small white ball, two light bats, and a net across the middle. You can play it with one friend or two friends. You hit the ball back and forth over the net. The ball makes a ping-pong sound when it bounces. Many people play it at home, at school, or in a big sports hall. It is a very fast game that makes you move your hands and feet.
Tablet\n\nA tablet is a flat, thin computer. It has a smooth glass screen you can touch with your finger. You can find it at home, at school, or in a store. People use it to play games, watch shows, read stories, or draw pictures. It is like a small TV that fits in your hands. Some tablets are big, and some are small. You can carry it in a bag or hold it on your lap.
Tableware\n\nTableware is the name for all the things we use to eat food. It includes plates, bowls, cups, forks, spoons, and knives. You see it on the table at breakfast, lunch, and dinner. People use it to hold food and to help cut and scoop food into their mouths. A plate is flat and round, a bowl is deep, and a cup has a handle. Some tableware is made of hard white stuff called ceramic, and some is made of shiny metal. At a birthday party, you might see special tableware with bright colors.
Taboo\n\nA taboo is something people are not allowed to do or talk about. It is like a big rule that a group of people share. If someone breaks a taboo, other people may feel upset or think it is very rude. Different groups have different taboos. For example, in many places, eating people is a taboo. Some foods are taboo in certain religions. Talking about private body things in public is often a taboo too.
Tadpole\n\nA tadpole is a baby frog. It lives in the water and breathes like a fish. It has a round body and a long tail that wiggles side to side to help it swim. You can find it in ponds, lakes, or slow streams in the spring. It eats tiny green plants that grow on rocks under the water. As it gets bigger, it grows back legs first, then front legs. Its tail gets smaller and smaller until it is gone. Then it becomes a small frog that can hop on land and breathe air.
Taekwondo\n\nTaekwondo is a way of fighting from Korea. It uses hands and feet to hit and block. Kicking is very big in it because legs are long and strong. People do it as a sport and to stay fit. You can see it in the Olympic Games. Many kids and grown-ups wear a white suit and a colored belt when they practice.
Tag\n\nA tag is a small piece of paper or plastic that tells you something. It is often flat and has words or a picture on it. You can find a tag on a new shirt or a toy. It tells you how to wash the shirt or what the toy is called. Sometimes a tag is stuck on with a string or a sticker. When you buy something, the tag shows the price. You can also see a tag on a pet's collar with its name.
Tagalog language\n\nTagalog language is a way people talk in the Philippines. It is the first language for many people there. Many others learn it as a second language so they can all understand each other. It uses letters like the ones we use in English, but it has a few extra letters. People write it with the same ABC letters we know. You can hear it when Filipino families talk at home or sing songs.
Taiga\n\nTaiga is a big, cold forest. It has many trees with thin, pointy leaves that stay green all year. You can find it in far north places like Canada and Russia. The winters are very cold and long, and the summers are short and cool. Many animals like bears and wolves live there.
Tail\n\nA tail is a long part at the back of an animal's body. It can be short or long, fluffy or smooth. Many animals have a tail, like dogs, cats, and horses. A dog wags its tail when it is happy. A cat uses its tail to keep balance when it walks on a fence. A horse swishes its tail to shoo away flies. Some tails are very colorful, like a peacock's tail.
Taipei\n\nTaipei is a big city on an island called Taiwan. It has tall buildings, busy streets, and many people. One very tall building is called Taipei 101. It looks like a giant tower and lights up at night. In Taipei, you can ride a fast train under the ground. People call it the MRT. There are also buses and cars. Many people ride small scooters to go to work. At night, you can visit a night market. There you can eat yummy food and play games. Taipei has warm weather and lots of rain. Sometimes the air gets a little smoky from all the cars and scooters.
Taiwan\n\nTaiwan is a big island in the ocean near China. It has tall green mountains, busy cities, and warm beaches. Many people live there and speak a language called Mandarin. They grow rice, make computer parts, and ride fast trains. Some children there fly kites by the sea.
Taj Mahal\n\nThe Taj Mahal is a big, beautiful building in India. It is made of white stone that looks pink in the morning and gold at night. It sits next to a river in a city called Agra. A king built it long ago for his wife who died. Many people visit it to see how pretty it is. The air makes the stone turn a little yellow, so people work hard to keep it clean.
Tajikistan\n\nTajikistan is a country far away in the middle of Asia. It has tall, snowy mountains and deep river valleys. Most of the land is high and rocky. The summers are hot and the winters are not too cold. People there speak a language called Tajik. The biggest city is Dushanbe. Long ago, it was part of a big group of countries called the Soviet Union. Now it is its own country.
Take\n\nTake means to pick something up or hold it. You can take a toy from the floor. You can take a cookie from the plate. When you go to school, you take your bag with you. It is something you do with your hands.
Taklamakan Desert\n\nThe Taklamakan Desert is a very big, dry place with lots of sand. It is in China, far away. There is almost no water there, so it is hard to walk across. Long ago, people with camels stopped at small towns with water and trees. Now, some of those towns are empty and broken. The desert is very hot in the day and cold at night.
Tale\n\nA tale is a story. It can be about people, animals, or made-up things. You hear a tale when someone reads a book to you or tells it out loud. Some tales are short, and some are long. A tale can make you laugh, feel happy, or a little scared. Many tales start with "Once upon a time."
Talk\n\nTalk is when people use words to share ideas. It comes out of your mouth as sounds that others can hear. You talk with your family at home, with friends at school, and with teachers in class. It helps you tell someone what you want, how you feel, or a fun story. When you say 'hello' or 'I am hungry,' that is talk.
Talk show\n\nA talk show is a kind of TV or radio program where people talk. It has a host who leads the talk and one or more guests who come to chat. You can find it on a TV at home or hear it on a radio in the car. It is used to share stories, make jokes, or talk about things that matter. Sometimes people at home can call in and join the talk. A famous one is the show with Oprah Winfrey, where she talked to many different people.
Tall\n\nTall means something is very high up. A tall person has a long body from feet to head. A tall tree reaches way up into the sky. You can see tall buildings in a big city. A tall glass holds a lot of water. When you stand next to something tall, you have to look up to see the top.
Tamarind\n\nTamarind is a fruit that grows on a tree. It looks like a brown pod. Inside, it has a sticky, dark brown part that you can eat. It tastes very sour. People use it in cooking to make food taste tangy. In some places, they mix it with water and sugar to make a cool drink. You might find it in a jar or a packet at a store.
Tame\n\nTame means an animal is not wild. It is calm and safe to be near. A tame dog lives in a house and plays with people. You can pet it and it will not run away or bite. A tame cat may sit on your lap and purr. Some birds can be tame too, and they may eat from your hand.
Tamil language\n\nTamil is a language people speak. It has its own letters that look like little drawings. Many people in a place called Tamil Nadu in India speak it every day. They also speak it in Sri Lanka, Singapore, and other parts of the world. You can see it written in books and newspapers. It has been around for a very long time, and many people use it to talk to their family and friends.
Tang\n\nA tang is a strong, sharp taste. It is the zing you feel on your tongue when you eat a lemon or a lime. You can find it in sour candy, yogurt, and some fruits. People use it to make food and drinks more exciting. A glass of cold lemonade on a hot day has a tang that wakes up your mouth.
Tango\n\nTango is a kind of dance. It started long ago in a big city called Buenos Aires. Two people hold each other close and move their feet in a slow, smooth way. The music for it has a strong beat that goes step-step-pause. You can see it at a dance party or on a TV show. Some people learn it in a class with a teacher.
Tank\n\nA tank is a big, strong car that soldiers use. It has a hard metal skin all around to keep the people inside safe. It moves on wide metal belts instead of wheels, so it can go over mud and bumpy ground. A tank has a long gun on top that can shoot far away. Soldiers sit inside and drive it, and one soldier looks out and shoots the gun. You might see a tank in a movie or a picture book about wars.
Tanzania\n\nTanzania is a big country in Africa. It has green land, tall mountains, and a very big lake called Lake Victoria. Many people live there, and they speak different languages. It is home to wild animals like lions and cheetahs that run free in a wide, grassy place called the Serengeti. Some people in Tanzania live in busy cities, and some live in small villages. The weather is warm most of the year.
Taoism\n\nTaoism is a way of thinking and living that started in China long ago. It teaches people to live a simple and quiet life. It says there is a big force called the Tao that moves through everything. People who follow Taoism try to be calm and not fight with others. They also try to live in peace with nature. You might see a round black-and-white sign called yin and yang that shows how two different things can fit together.
Tap\n\nA tap is a thing on a sink that gives water. It has a handle you turn or lift. You find it in the kitchen or bathroom. When you turn it, water comes out for washing hands or filling a cup. Some taps have one handle, and some have two—one for hot water and one for cold.
Tape\n\nTape is a long, flat strip that is sticky on one side. It comes in a round roll that you can hold in your hand. You find it at home, in school, or in an office. People use it to stick paper together or to fix a torn page. Clear tape is see-through, and some tape is brown or colorful. A child might use tape to hang a drawing on the wall.
Tapestry\n\nA tapestry is a big cloth with pictures made from colored threads. It is made by hand on a tall wooden frame. The threads that go side to side cover the threads that go up and down, so you only see the soft, colorful part. Long ago, kings and queens hung it on cold stone walls to keep rooms warm. It can also show a story, like a big battle or a garden full of flowers. You might see one in a museum or a very old house.
Tapir\n\nA tapir is a big animal that looks a little like a pig with a short nose. It has a round body, short legs, and a tiny tail. Its nose and top lip make a short trunk that can grab leaves. It lives in warm, wet forests near water in South America, Central America, and one kind lives in Asia. It eats leaves, fruit, and berries, and it is very good at swimming. A baby tapir has brown fur with white stripes and spots to hide in the woods.
Tarantula\n\nA tarantula is a big, hairy spider. It has eight legs and a round body covered in soft hair. It lives in warm places, like hot forests or deserts. Some live in trees, and some dig holes in the ground. It makes silk, a thin, strong thread, to build a soft home or to wrap up its food. It eats bugs and small animals. A tarantula looks scary, but it mostly hides from danger.
Tardigrade\n\nA tardigrade is a tiny animal that lives in water. It is so small you need a microscope to see it. It has a soft, round body with eight little legs, and each leg has tiny claws. You can find it in wet places like moss, ponds, and even on high mountains. It eats tiny bits of plants. It can live in very hot or very cold places, and it can even go without water for many years. Some people call it a water bear because it looks a little like a bear when it walks.
Taro\n\nTaro is a plant that people eat. It has a big round part under the ground and big green leaves on top. People cook the round part and the leaves to make them safe to eat. If you eat them without cooking, they can make you sick. Taro grows in warm places near the ocean. It is a food that people have eaten for a very long time.
Tarsier\n\nA tarsier is a tiny animal that lives in trees. It has very big round eyes and long back legs. It lives on islands far away in warm places. It jumps from tree to tree at night to catch bugs and small animals to eat. It looks a little like a tiny furry person with a long tail. Some people say it looks like a funny movie character.
Tashkent\n\nTashkent is a big city in a country called Uzbekistan. It has many old buildings, busy streets, and a river next to it. Many people live there, and it is the most important city in its country. It has a museum with old things from long ago, a big theater where people sing and dance, and an old school building made of stone. In summer it gets very hot, and in winter it gets cold with snow. Children there play soccer, and some grow up to be fast runners or bike riders.
Task\n\nA task is a job or a little thing you need to do. It can be something your teacher asks, like putting away your toys. It can also be something at home, like feeding the dog. When you finish a task, you feel good because you helped out.
Tasman Sea\n\nThe Tasman Sea is a big body of water. It sits between two countries: Australia and New Zealand. It is part of the even bigger Pacific Ocean. People use boats to cross it when they travel from one country to the other. Some people call it "The Ditch" as a fun name. The water is deep and blue, and you can see it on a map.
Tasmania\n\nTasmania is a big island that is part of Australia. It sits in the ocean below the main part of Australia. It has many green forests and tall trees. Some animals live only there, like the Tasmanian devil. People can visit old towns and big cities on the island. The biggest city is called Hobart.
Tasmanian devil\n\nA Tasmanian devil is a small, furry animal that eats meat. It is about the size of a little dog, with black fur, a wide head, and a short tail. It lives only on an island called Tasmania. It sleeps during the day and wakes up at night. It makes a very loud, scary noise. It hunts other animals and also eats animals that are already dead. It has strong teeth and can eat bones and fur. A mother Tasmanian devil carries her babies in a pouch on her belly. Many of them are getting sick with a bad lump on their face, so people are trying to help them stay safe.
Taste\n\nTaste is a way your body knows what food is like. It happens when tiny parts on your tongue, called taste buds, feel the food and send a message to your brain. It can tell you if food is sweet like candy, salty like chips, sour like a lemon, or bitter like dark chocolate. It also helps you know if food is safe to eat. When you have a cold and your nose is stuffy, it does not work as well because smell helps it too.
Tasty\n\nTasty means something has a good flavor when you eat it. It can be sweet like candy, salty like chips, or sour like a lemon. You find tasty things at home, at a party, or in your lunch box. When food is tasty, you want to eat more of it. A cookie fresh from the oven is a tasty treat.
Tax\n\nTax is money that people give to the government. The government uses it to pay for things that help everyone. It pays for schools, hospitals, roads, and police. There are many kinds of tax. Some tax is taken from the money you earn at a job. Some tax is added when you buy a toy or a snack. Long ago, people also had to give money to a king or a ruler. That was a kind of tax too.
Taxi\n\nA taxi is a car that anyone can ride. It is often yellow or has a light on top. You see it in big cities on busy streets. You wave your hand to stop it, then tell the driver where you want to go. It takes you right to the door with no other stops. You pay money at the end, and the price goes up the farther you ride.
Taxonomy\n\nTaxonomy is a way to sort things into groups. It is like putting toys into boxes: all the cars go in one box, all the blocks go in another. Scientists use taxonomy to sort animals and plants. For example, they put all birds in one big group and all fish in another. This helps people understand how living things are alike or different.
Tea\n\nTea is a warm drink that people make with leaves and hot water. It can be light green, brown, or dark red. You can find it in cups at home, in a shop, or at a friend's house. Many grown-ups drink it in the morning or when they feel cold. Some people put milk or sugar in it to make it taste sweet. There is also a kind called herbal tea that uses flowers or fruit instead of leaves.
Teach\n\nTo teach is to help someone learn something new. A teacher shows you how to do things, like counting or drawing. You find teaching at school, at home, or anywhere a grown-up helps a child. When you teach, you share what you know so the other person can do it too. For example, a big kid might teach a little kid how to tie shoes.
Teacher\n\nA teacher is a person who helps you learn new things. She works in a room with desks and a big board. You can find her at a school, like your kindergarten or a big kid school. She shows you how to read, write, and count. She also tells you fun stories and helps you make art. When you do not know something, she helps you until you get it. Your teacher at school is one example.
Teaching\n\nTeaching is when one person helps another person learn something new. It can happen at school, at home, or anywhere. A teacher might show you how to count, read a book, or tie your shoes. It uses words, pictures, and sometimes songs to make ideas clear. When you learn to ride a bike, someone is teaching you. Teaching is a kind and helpful thing to do.
Team\n\nA team is a group of people who work or play together. They all try to reach the same goal. You can see a team on a sports field, like a soccer team kicking a ball. In school, you might be on a team for a game or a project. Each person on the team has a job to do. When they help each other, they can do big things.
Tear\n\nA tear is a tiny drop of water that comes from your eye. It feels wet and a little salty. You see tears when you cry because you are sad or hurt. Sometimes tears come when you laugh very hard or when wind blows in your face. It helps wash dust out of your eye and keeps it clean.
Technical drawing\n\nA technical drawing is a careful picture that shows how to build something. It uses lines, shapes, and numbers to tell a clear story. You can find it in places where people make cars, houses, or toys. A person called a drafter draws it so that workers know exactly what to do. For example, before a bridge is built, a technical drawing shows every piece and where it goes.
Technology\n\nTechnology is using what we know to make things that help us. It can be a simple tool like a hammer or a spoon. It can also be a big machine like a car or a computer. People use technology every day to cook food, talk to friends far away, and go places. A long time ago, people made fire and the wheel. Today, we have phones and the internet. Technology makes life easier and helps people all over the world.
Tectonics\n\nTectonics is about how the big, hard outside of the Earth moves. It is like a giant puzzle made of huge rock pieces. These pieces float on a hot, soft layer deep down. They move very, very slowly—only as fast as your fingernails grow. When they bump into each other, they can push up mountains. Sometimes they slide past each other and make the ground shake. That shaking is called an earthquake. You can see mountains and feel earthquakes because of tectonics.
Teddy\n\nA teddy is a soft toy that looks like a bear. It has a round head, two small ears, and a fuzzy body. You can find it in a child's bedroom or on a shelf. A child hugs it at night to feel safe. It can be brown, white, or pink. Many kids get a teddy as a gift when they are very little.
Teeth\n\nTeeth are the hard white parts inside your mouth. They sit in a row on the top and bottom. You use them to bite and chew food so it is easy to swallow. When you smile, people can see your front teeth. You get two sets in your life: baby teeth and then grown-up teeth. It is important to brush them every day to keep them clean and strong.
Tegucigalpa\n\nTegucigalpa is a big city. It is the most important city in a country called Honduras. It sits high up on hills and mountains. Around it, you can see many pine trees and green woods. The weather there has a wet time and a dry time. Many people live in this city.
Tehran\n\nTehran is a very big city. It is the most important city in a country called Iran. Many, many people live there. It has tall buildings, busy streets, and big parks. Long ago, it was a small village, but it grew and grew. Now it is the place where the country's leaders work. You can find old palaces and big markets there. The weather is hot in summer and cold in winter, and sometimes it snows.
Telecommunication\n\nTelecommunication is a way to send messages far away. It uses tools like phones, radios, and computers. Long ago, people used smoke or drums to talk over a distance. Today, you can call Grandma on a phone and hear her voice. A TV show also comes to your house using telecommunication.
Telephone\n\nA telephone is a tool that lets you talk to someone far away. It has a part you hold to your ear and a part you speak into. Long ago, it was tied to the wall with a cord. Now many telephones are small and have no cord. You can carry one in your pocket. People use it to call a friend or family. A child might see a telephone at home when Mom or Dad talks on it.
Telescope\n\nA telescope is a tool that helps you see things that are far away. It looks like a long tube with a big round glass at one end and a small hole to look through at the other end. You can find it in a science room or in a park at night. It makes the moon, stars, and planets look much bigger and closer. When you look through it, you might see the moon's bumps and dips, or a bright star that looks like a tiny dot without it.
Television\n\nA television is a machine with a screen that shows moving pictures and sound. It looks like a flat box with a big glass front. You can find it in many living rooms at home. People use it to watch shows, cartoons, and movies. When you turn it on, you can see people talking, animals running, or funny stories. A remote control helps you change what is on the screen from far away.
Television program\n\nA television program is a show you watch on a TV. It can be a story with people acting, a cartoon, or a show about real animals. You find it on a TV at home, and you pick which one to watch with a remote. Some programs teach you new things, and some are just for fun. A program can be short like a little song, or long like a whole movie. After one program ends, another one starts, and sometimes there are short ads in between.
Tell\n\nTell is a word we use when we share something with words. It means you give a story, a fact, or a secret to someone else. When you tell your friend about your day, you use your voice to make words. You can also tell a story from a book. It is like giving a gift made of words.
Temperate climate\n\nA temperate climate is a place where the weather is not too hot and not too cold. It has four seasons: spring, summer, autumn, and winter. In spring, flowers bloom and it gets warmer. In summer, it can be sunny and warm. In autumn, leaves fall from trees. In winter, it gets cold and sometimes snow falls. The weather can change a lot from one day to the next. Many places where people live have a temperate climate.
Temperature\n\nTemperature is how hot or cold something is. You can feel it with your skin. A hot day feels warm, and ice feels cold. People use a tool called a thermometer to check it. It shows a number that tells you how hot or cold it is. In many places, they use a scale called Celsius. Water freezes at zero and boils at one hundred on that scale. The sun makes the air warm, so summer days have a high temperature. Winter days have a low temperature.
Temple\n\nA temple is a special building where people go to pray. It has walls, a roof, and often a big room inside. You can find a temple in many towns and cities. People go there to be quiet, sing songs, and think about God. Some temples have tall towers or pretty windows. A church is a kind of temple where Christian people go.
Ten\n\nTen is a number. It comes after nine and before eleven. You can see it on a clock, on a ruler, or in a book. It is how many fingers you have on both hands. When you count ten steps, you stop after the tenth step.
Ten Commandments\n\nThe Ten Commandments are ten important rules from the Bible. They were written on two big flat stones a long time ago. People can find them in a holy book called the Bible. The rules tell people to be kind, not to hurt others, and to love God. One rule says to listen to your mom and dad. Another rule says not to take things that are not yours.
Tendon\n\nA tendon is a strong, stretchy band inside your body. It looks like a white rope. It ties a muscle to a bone so they can work together. When a muscle pulls, it pulls the bone, and you can move. You can feel a big tendon on the back of your hand when you wiggle your fingers.
Tennis\n\nTennis is a fun game you play with a soft ball and a racket. It is played on a flat space called a court. The court has a net in the middle. You hit the ball over the net to the other side. If the other player cannot hit it back, you get a point. You can play with one friend or with two friends on each side. People play tennis outside on grass or hard ground. Many people like to watch big tennis games on TV.
Tense (grammar)\n\nTense is a way to show when something happens. It lives inside a doing word, like "run" or "eat". It can change the word to tell us about now, before, or later. For example, "I play" means now. "I played" means before. "I will play" means later. We use it every time we talk or tell a story.
Tent\n\nA tent is a small house made of cloth. It has tall sticks called poles that hold the cloth up. People use it when they sleep outside, like on a camping trip. It keeps the wind and rain away so you stay dry and warm. You can see a tent at a park or in a backyard. Some tents are big enough for a whole family to sit inside.
Term\n\nA term is a word or a group of words that names one thing. It can be a short word like "cat" or a longer one like "fire truck." People use terms when they talk about a special topic, like a game or a job. For example, "home run" is a term in baseball. A term helps everyone know exactly what you mean.
Termite\n\nA termite is a tiny bug that lives in big groups. It has a soft body and looks a little like an ant, but it is not the same. It eats old wood, dead leaves, and dirt. You can find it in warm places, often under the ground or inside old tree stumps. Some termites build tall dirt homes that look like small hills. It can chew through wood in houses, so people try to keep it away.
Tern\n\nA tern is a bird that lives near the water. It has a slim body, long wings, and a tail that looks like a fork. Its feathers are mostly light gray on top and white below, with a black cap on its head. You can see it flying over the sea or a big lake. It dives down fast to catch small fish with its long, pointy beak. Many terns fly very far when the weather gets cold, traveling to warm places and then coming back again.
Terracotta Army\n\nThe Terracotta Army is a big group of clay soldiers. They were made a very long time ago in China. Each soldier is made of baked brown clay and is as tall as a grown man. They were put under the ground near a city called Xi'an. A farmer found them while digging a hole for water. The soldiers were made to guard a king after he died. Every soldier has a different face. Some hold swords, and some hold bows. They stand in neat rows like a real army.
Terrestrial planet\n\nA terrestrial planet is a big ball of rock and metal that goes around a star. It has three main parts: a hard outside called the crust, a soft middle called the mantle, and a hot center called the core. You can find it in space, moving around the sun. Earth is one of these planets, and so are Mars, Venus, and Mercury. It can have tall mountains, deep holes called craters, and even big cracks. Some have air around them, but not always like Earth's air. The ground is made of stone and metal, and it feels hard if you could stand on it.
Terrible\n\nTerrible means something is very, very bad. It can be a scary dream, a loud noise, or a yucky taste. When a toy breaks into many pieces, that feels terrible. A big storm with thunder and lightning can be terrible too. If you fall and hurt your knee, it might feel terrible for a little while.
Terrier\n\nA terrier is a kind of small dog. It has a strong body and short legs. Its fur is often rough and stiff, like a brush. It loves to dig holes in the ground to find little animals. A terrier is very brave and full of energy. It likes to run and play outside. Some terriers have long hair, and some have short hair. You might see a terrier at a park or at a friend's house.
Tesla\n\nTesla is a company that makes cars. It builds cars that run on electricity, not gas. You can see its cars on the road, and they are very quiet. Some of its cars can even drive themselves a little bit. The company also makes big batteries for houses.
Tessellation\n\nA tessellation is a picture made of shapes that fit together with no empty spaces. It uses one shape over and over, like a puzzle. The shapes do not overlap and they cover the whole page. You can see tessellations on floors and walls with tiles. A honeycomb is a tessellation made by bees. The little holes are all the same shape and they fit side by side.
Test\n\nA test is a way to see what you know or can do. It often has questions on paper or a screen. You might take a test at school to show your teacher how much you learned. Sometimes a test is not on paper, like when you try to ride a bike without help. A test can feel a little hard, but it helps you grow.
Texas\n\nTexas is a big state in the United States. It has wide open spaces, hot deserts, green forests, and a long coast by the sea. Many people live in big cities like Houston and Dallas. It is called the Lone Star State because its flag has one star. Long ago, cowboys rode horses and took care of cows there. Today, people work with computers and oil. You can see tall buildings, big trucks, and eat tasty food like tacos.
Text\n\nText is words that people write or type. It can be short like a note or long like a story. You see it in books, on signs, and on your tablet screen. People read text to learn new things or to enjoy a tale. When you send a message to a friend, you use text.
Text to speech\n\nText to speech is a tool that reads words out loud. It takes words on a screen and turns them into a voice you can hear. You can find it on phones, tablets, and computers. It helps people who cannot see well or who find reading hard. For example, it can read a story to you while you look at the pictures.
Textile\n\nA textile is a soft, flat material made from tiny threads. It is made by weaving or looping threads together. You can find it in many places at home, like your clothes, your blanket, and the towel you use after a bath. People use it to make shirts, pants, and cozy socks. It can also cover chairs and beds. Some textiles come from plants, like the fluffy cotton in your t-shirt. Others come from animals, like the warm wool from a sheep.
Textile arts\n\nTextile arts is making things with string, thread, or cloth. It can be a blanket to keep you warm or a pretty picture on the wall. People do it at home or in a craft room. They use their hands to sew, weave, or tie knots. A scarf your mom knits for you is a kind of textile art.
Thai boxing\n\nThai boxing is a way of fighting that comes from Thailand. It uses hands, feet, elbows, and knees to hit. People who do it wear special gloves to keep hands safe. They train very hard to make their body strong. Some kick hard things to make their legs tough. In a match, two people fight in a ring while others watch.
Thai language\n\nThe Thai language is the way people in Thailand talk to each other. It uses a special set of letters that look like pretty shapes and lines. The letters are not like the ABC letters we use in English. When people speak Thai, their voice goes up and down like a song. This is because the same word can mean different things when you say it with a high voice or a low voice. You can hear Thai when you watch a show from Thailand or when you meet someone from that country.
Thailand\n\nThailand is a country in a warm part of the world. It has a king and a flag with red, white, and blue stripes. Many people there go to temples with gold tops and big statues. They eat rice and noodles with tasty spices. Some people ride long boats on rivers. A big city in Thailand is called Bangkok.
Than\n\nThan is a small word we use when we compare two things. It helps us say which one is bigger, faster, or taller. You might say, "My dog is bigger than your cat." It is a word you hear and use every day when you talk with friends and family.
Thank\n\nThank is a word you say when someone does something nice for you. It is a short way to show you are happy and feel good inside. You can say it when you get a gift, when someone helps you, or when a friend shares a toy. Saying thank you makes the other person smile. It is a kind word that everyone likes to hear.
Thanks\n\nThanks is a short way to say "thank you." It is a kind word you say when someone gives you something or helps you. You can say it with a smile or a hug. When you get a cookie from a friend, you say thanks. It makes people feel happy and warm inside.
That\n\nThat is a word we use to point at something far away. It is not close to us, like a toy across the room. We say "that" when we talk about one thing we can see but not touch right now. For example, if you see a bird in a tree, you might say, "Look at that!"
The\n\nThe is a small word we use every day. It helps us point to one special thing, like the sun or the moon. You see it at the start of many sentences and in books. It tells us we are talking about something we both know. For example, when you say 'the cat,' you mean one cat you already see.
The Arts\n\nThe Arts are things people make to share feelings and ideas. They can be pictures you draw, songs you sing, or stories you act out. You find them in books, on walls, and on stages. People use them to make others happy, sad, or excited. A drawing you made for your mom is a piece of art.
The Bahamas\n\nThe Bahamas is a country made of many small islands in the warm blue sea. It has hundreds of islands, but most are tiny and flat. The biggest island is called Andros, and the capital city, Nassau, sits on another island. Many people visit The Bahamas to swim in the clear water and play on the sandy beaches. The people there speak English, and most have dark skin. It is sunny and hot almost all year, and sometimes big storms called hurricanes pass by.
The Beatles\n\nThe Beatles were a group of four friends who made music together. They played guitars, drums, and sang songs. People all over the world loved their happy tunes and dancing. You might hear their music on the radio or in a movie. Many grown-ups still listen to them and smile.
The Blue Marble\n\nThe Blue Marble is a picture of our Earth. It shows the big blue ocean, white clouds, and brown and green land. The picture was taken from a spaceship far, far away. It looks like a round blue ball in the dark sky. Many people love this picture because it shows how pretty our home is.
The Gambia\n\nThe Gambia is a small country in Africa. It is long and thin, and it sits next to the big blue ocean. A big river runs through the middle of it. Most of the land around it belongs to another country called Senegal. Many people there speak English and follow a faith called Islam. The weather is hot, and it rains a lot in the summer.
The Scream\n\nThe Scream is a famous painting by a man named Edvard Munch. It shows a strange person with a round, open mouth and big, wide eyes. The person stands on a bridge, and the sky behind it is red and yellow. The painting lives in a big art house in Norway, a country far away. People look at it and feel strong feelings, like being scared or surprised. You might see a picture of it on a book or a shirt.
The Starry Night\n\nThe Starry Night is a painting of the night sky. It shows a big, bright moon and many stars that look like they are spinning. The sky is blue and full of swirls. Below the sky, there is a small town with dark houses and a tall church. A big, dark tree stands in the front. You can see this painting in a museum. Many people love it because the colors and shapes feel like a dream.
The Thinker\n\nThe Thinker is a statue made of dark, shiny metal. It shows a man sitting on a rock. He bends his arm and puts his chin on his hand. He looks like he is thinking very hard. You can see it in big museums. Many people know this statue because it is famous all over the world.
Theater\n\nA theater is a big room where people go to watch a show. It has a stage at the front with bright lights. Many chairs face the stage so everyone can see. People act, sing, or dance on the stage to tell a story. You might go to a theater to see a play with your family.
Theatre\n\nA theatre is a big room where people watch live shows. It has a stage where actors stand and move. Many people sit in rows of chairs to see the show. The actors wear costumes and pretend to be different people. They tell a story with words and actions. Sometimes there are bright lights and music. You might see a play at a theatre with your family.
Theft\n\nTheft is when someone takes a thing that is not theirs. It is also called stealing. A person who steals is a thief. It can happen in a store, on a street, or in a house. A thief might take a toy, money, or a phone without asking. Stealing is wrong and against the rules. If someone steals, they can get in big trouble.
Their\n\nTheir is a word that shows something belongs to a group of people or animals. It is like saying 'the toy is theirs' when the toy belongs to two or more friends. You can use it when you do not want to say 'his' or 'her' because you are talking about more than one person. For example, if a class has a pet bunny, you can say 'the bunny is their pet.'
Theism\n\nTheism is the idea that there is a god or many gods. It is a way some people think about the world. Some people believe in one god, and some believe in many gods. A person who believes in a god is called a theist. A person who does not believe in any god is called an atheist. Many people around the world are theists. They may go to a special building to pray or sing.
Them\n\nThem is a word we use when we talk about more than one person or thing. It is like saying "those people" or "those things." You hear it when someone says, "I see the kids. I will play with them." It helps us talk about a group without saying all the names. You can use it for people, animals, or things.
Theme park\n\nA theme park is a big fun place with many rides. It has fast rides like roller coasters and wet rides with water. You can also find shops to buy toys and places to eat yummy food. Many parks have a special idea, like a movie world or a water world. One famous park is Disneyland, where you can meet Mickey Mouse. People of all ages go there to have a happy day together.
Then\n\nThen means after something else happens. It tells you what comes next in a story or a day. First you wake up, then you eat breakfast. It helps put things in order so we know what happens when.
Theology\n\nTheology is thinking and talking about God. It is a big word for asking questions like who God is and what God does. People who study theology read old books and tell stories about God. You might hear about it at church or from a grown-up who prays. It helps people understand why we are here and how to be kind.
Theory\n\nA theory is an idea that tries to explain why something happens. It is like a guess that smart people check many times. They look at the world, ask questions, and test the idea to see if it is true. If the idea passes many tests, people trust it more. For example, a theory can explain why the sun comes up every morning or why things fall down when you drop them.
Theory Of Relativity\n\nThe theory of relativity is a big idea from a smart man named Einstein. It tells us that time and space can bend and stretch. It says that time can go slower when you move very fast. It also says that heavy things like stars can pull on light. This idea helps us understand how the whole world works.
Theravada\n\nTheravada is a way of thinking and living that some people follow. It is very old and comes from a warm country far away. People who follow it try to be calm and kind. They sit quietly to make their minds still, like when you take a deep breath. They also try to help others and not hurt any living thing. You might see a statue of a person sitting with eyes closed and a gentle smile—that is a sign of this way.
There\n\nThere is a word we use to point to a place. It is not a thing you can touch. You say it when you want to tell someone where something is. For example, you might say, "Your toy is over there," and point with your finger. It helps people know the spot you mean.
Thermodynamics\n\nThermodynamics is the study of heat and how it moves. It looks at how hot things get and how they cool down. You can see it when you put ice in a warm drink and the ice melts. It also explains why a pot on the stove gets hot when you turn on the fire. Engines in cars and planes use it to make them go.
Thermometer\n\nA thermometer is a tool that tells you how hot or cold something is. It is a long, thin stick with numbers on the side. You can find one at home, at the doctor's office, or in a school. When you feel sick, a grown-up may put one end of it under your tongue or in your ear to check your body heat. Some have a red or silver line that moves up when it gets warm. Others have a little screen that shows the number. A thermometer helps you know if you have a fever.
Thesaurus\n\nA thesaurus is a special book that helps you find words that mean the same thing. It is a big list of words, and next to each word it shows other words that are like it. You can find it in a library or on a computer. When you want a new word for "big," you look in it and see words like "huge" or "large." It also shows words that mean the opposite, like "small" for "big." Many kids and grown-ups use it when they write stories or do homework.
These\n\nThese is a word we use when we point to more than one thing that is close to us. It helps us talk about things we can see or touch right now. For example, if you hold two red blocks, you can say, "These blocks are red." It is the plural form of the word "this." We use it every day when we speak and play.
Thick\n\nThick means something is wide from one side to the other. It is the opposite of thin. A thick book has many pages. A thick blanket keeps you very warm. You might see a thick tree trunk in the park.
Thief\n\nA thief is a person who takes things that do not belong to them. He might sneak into a house or a store when no one is looking. He takes toys, money, or food without asking. This is not nice and it is against the rules. Police officers try to catch a thief to keep everyone safe. If you see someone taking something that is not theirs, you should tell a grown-up.
Thin\n\nThin means something is not wide or not thick. A piece of paper is thin. A pencil is thin, but a book is thick. When you draw a line with a sharp crayon, the line is thin. Some people are thin, which means their body is not big around. A thin blanket is good for a warm day.
Thing\n\nA thing is something you can see, touch, or think about. It can be big like a house or small like a button. You find things all around you every day. A toy is a thing you play with. A spoon is a thing you eat with. A book is a thing with pages and pictures.
Things\n\nThings are all the objects you can see, touch, or think about. It can be something big like a house or something small like a button. You find things everywhere—in your room, at the park, or in your backpack. People use things every day: a spoon to eat, a book to read, or a toy to play with. A red ball is a thing you might bounce in the yard.
Think\n\nThink is something your brain does. It is like a quiet voice inside your head. You use it to figure things out, like how to build a block tower or what to draw. When you think, you can remember your favorite song or decide which snack you want. Everyone thinks all day long, even when they are sleeping and dreaming.
Thinker\n\nA thinker is a person who uses their brain to have big ideas. She sits quietly and wonders about things like why the sky is blue or how birds fly. You can find a thinker in a library, at school, or even in a park looking at clouds. She asks many questions and tries to find answers. A thinker might write down her ideas or draw pictures to share them. When you solve a puzzle or make up a story, you are being a thinker too.
Third\n\nThird means the one that comes after second. When you count, you say one, two, three. The number three spot is third. In a race, the person who finishes third gets a bronze medal. You might be third in line for the slide at the park. It is a way to tell the order of things.
Thirsty\n\nThirsty is a feeling you get when your body needs water. It makes your mouth and throat feel dry. You can feel thirsty after you run and play outside on a hot day. When you are thirsty, you want a drink of water, juice, or milk. Drinking a big glass of cool water makes the thirsty feeling go away.
Thirteen\n\nThirteen is a number. It comes after twelve and before fourteen. You can count thirteen apples, thirteen crayons, or thirteen blocks. Some people think it is a lucky number, and some think it is not lucky. It has a one and a three when you write it down.
Thirty\n\nThirty is a number. It comes after twenty-nine and before thirty-one. It is three groups of ten. You can count to thirty with your fingers and toes. When you turn thirty, you are not a little kid anymore. Many grown-ups are thirty years old.
This\n\nThis is a word we use to point to something that is close to us. It can be a thing we can touch, like a toy or a book. When we say "this," we mean the one right here, not the one over there. You might say "this cup" when you hold a cup in your hand. It helps people know which thing you are talking about.
Thomas\n\nThomas is a name for a boy. He is a person, just like you. You might meet a Thomas at school or at the park. He could be a friend who likes to play games and share toys. Sometimes a Thomas has a big smile and a kind heart.
Thomas Edison\n\nThomas Edison was a man who made many new things. He made a light that glows with electricity, so people did not need candles at night. He also made a machine that can record sounds and play them back. He worked in a big room with many tools and tried many ideas until one worked. You can see his light bulb in lamps at home.
Thor\n\nThor is a strong god from very old stories. He has red hair and a big beard. He lives in a place up in the sky called Asgard. He makes thunder and lightning when he rides his wagon pulled by two goats. He has a magic hammer that comes back to his hand when he throws it. People long ago told stories about him to explain storms.
Thorax\n\nA thorax is the middle part of a body. In people and animals like dogs and cats, it is the chest. It sits between the neck and the belly. It has strong bones called ribs that protect the heart and lungs. In bugs, it is the part in the middle of the head and the tail. A bug's legs and wings grow from it. You can feel your own chest move when you breathe.
Thoroughbred\n\nA Thoroughbred is a kind of horse. It is tall and has long legs. Its body looks smooth and shiny. People use it to run very fast in races. You can see it at a big track with many seats. It can be brown, red-brown, black, or gray.
Those\n\nThose is a word we use to point at things that are far away. It is the word for more than one thing. You might say "look at those birds" when you see birds in the sky. You can also use it for people, like "those are my friends." It helps us talk about things we can see but are not close to us.
Thoth\n\nThoth is a god from old Egyptian stories. He has the head of a bird with a long, curved beak, or sometimes the head of a dog-like animal. People drew him holding a writing stick and a flat board. In the stories, he was very smart and wrote things down. He helped other gods talk to each other and kept track of what was true and fair. Long ago, people sang songs and had big parties for him in a city by the river.
Though\n\nThough is a small word that joins two ideas. It shows that one idea is a little bit different from the other. You can use it when you want to say something like "I am small, though I am strong." It helps you tell a story with a little surprise or a twist.
Thought\n\nA thought is a little idea that pops into your head. It is like a quiet voice or a picture only you can see. You have thoughts when you are awake, like when you pick a toy or remember a song. It can be about anything—your pet, a cookie, or a happy day. Sometimes a thought comes fast, and sometimes you sit and think for a long time. It helps you choose what to do next.
Thought experiment\n\nA thought experiment is a test you do inside your head. It is not a test with real things you can touch. You ask a question like "what if this happened?" and then you think about what would come next. It helps people learn new ideas without a lab. Scientists and thinkers use it to understand hard things. Anyone can try it, even you.
Three\n\nThree is a number. It comes after two and before four. You can see it on a clock, on a dice, or when you count your fingers. If you have three cookies, you have one, two, three cookies. It is one more than a pair.
Three Dimensional Space\n\nThree dimensional space is the world around us. It has three ways to move: left and right, up and down, and forward and back. You can see it when you look at a ball, a box, or your own room. Everything you touch takes up space in these three ways. When you draw a picture, it is flat, but the real thing is not flat—it has depth too.
Throat\n\nA throat is a tube inside your neck. It helps you swallow food and drink. It also lets air go in and out when you breathe. You can feel it move when you say words or sing a song. Sometimes it feels sore when you are sick.
Throne\n\nA throne is a big, fancy chair. It is made for a king or a queen. It often has gold and soft red cloth. You can see it in a castle or a palace. The king or queen sits on it during special times. It shows that they are the most important person in the room.
Through\n\nThrough means moving from one side to the other side. It is like when you walk into a tunnel and come out the other end. You can look through a window to see what is outside. A ball can roll through a hoop. When you push a string through a bead, the bead goes onto the string.
Throw\n\nThrow means to send something through the air with your hand. You can throw a ball to a friend, and they catch it. It is a way to play games like catch or baseball. When you throw, you move your arm back and then forward fast. The thing you throw goes up and then comes down. Some things are easy to throw, like a soft ball. Other things are hard to throw, like a big rock.
Thud\n\nA thud is a short, low sound. It is the noise you hear when something heavy falls on the floor. You might hear it when a big book drops or when you jump off a chair. It is not a sharp sound like a bang; it is more like a soft, deep bump. Sometimes a thud can be a little scary if you do not know what made it.
Thumb\n\nA thumb is the short, thick finger on your hand. It is on the side of your hand, away from the other four fingers. It can bend and touch the tips of all your other fingers. This helps you hold a spoon, a crayon, or a toy. You use it every day to pick up small things. Without it, many jobs would be very hard to do.
Thump\n\nA thump is a deep, heavy sound. It happens when something big and soft hits a floor or a wall. You might hear it when a heavy book falls off a table. It is not a sharp sound like a clap or a bang. Sometimes your heart makes a thump sound when you are scared or excited.
Thunder\n\nThunder is a loud sound that comes from the sky. It happens when lightning flashes during a storm. Lightning makes the air very hot, and the hot air pushes out fast to make the big boom. You hear it after you see the lightning because light travels faster than sound. It can be a short crack or a long rumble. Sometimes it is so loud it shakes the windows. When you hear it, you know a storm is near.
Thunderstorm\n\nA thunderstorm is a big storm with strong wind, heavy rain, lightning, and loud thunder. It looks like a tall, dark cloud that can be flat on top. You see it in the sky when the air near the ground is warm and wet. It makes flashes of light called lightning and a big boom sound called thunder. Rain falls so hard that streets can fill with water fast. After it passes, the air feels cool and clean, and sometimes you see a rainbow.
Thursday\n\nThursday is a day of the week. It comes after Wednesday and before Friday. It is one of the seven days we count every week. Many people go to school or work on this day. Some kids have special activities like music class or sports practice on Thursday. It is not the weekend yet, but the weekend is very close.
Thyme\n\nThyme is a small green plant that smells very nice. It has tiny leaves and small flowers that can be white, pink, or purple. People grow it in gardens where the sun is hot and the ground is dry. It is used to make food taste good, like in soup or on meat. You might see it in the kitchen as little dried leaves in a jar.
Tian Shan\n\nTian Shan is a very big group of tall mountains. It is in the middle of Asia, near China and other countries. The tops are so high that snow stays on them all year. Long ago, people walked next to it to travel from one land to another. They used a path called the Silk Road. Today, some parts of it are special places that the whole world wants to keep safe.
Tibet\n\nTibet is a big place with tall mountains. It has snowy tops and wide open land. Many people there follow a peaceful way of thinking called Buddhism. They have special teachers called monks who wear red and yellow robes. Some monks live in big houses called temples where they sit quietly and think. A long time ago, Tibet had its own king, but now it is part of China. People in Tibet like to drink tea with butter and salt. They also have a special animal called a yak that gives them milk and wool.
Tibetan Plateau\n\nThe Tibetan Plateau is a very big, flat land that sits way up high. It is so high that it touches the sky. It is found in a part of the world called Asia. Many mountains grew around it a long, long time ago. The land is so big and high that it changes the weather. It helps bring rain to places far away. Some people live there with their animals, like yaks.
Tick\n\nA tick is a very short, soft sound. It is like a tiny tap or a light click. You can hear it from a clock on the wall. The clock makes a tick sound every second as the hands move. Some timers and watches also make this sound. It is a quiet noise that helps you count time.
Ticket\n\nA ticket is a small piece of paper or a picture on a phone. It lets you go into a place or ride on something. You can get a ticket at a movie theater, a train station, or a big park. A person at the door looks at it and lets you in. Sometimes you keep the ticket to remember a fun day.
Tickle\n\nA tickle is a light touch that makes you laugh. It feels like a little wiggle on your skin. You can find it when someone touches your belly, feet, or under your arms. People do it to play and have fun with friends. A tickle can make you giggle and squirm. Sometimes a feather or a soft brush can give a tickle too.
Tide\n\nA tide is the way the big water in the ocean moves up and down. It goes up high on the beach, then it goes back down low. The Moon in the sky pulls the water and makes it move. When the water is high, we call it high tide. When the water is low, we call it low tide. You can see the tide at the beach. In the morning the water might be far away, and later it comes close to your feet. The tide changes two times every day.
Tidy\n\nTidy means to put things in their right place so a room looks clean. When you tidy, you pick up toys from the floor and put them in a box. You also make your bed smooth and put books back on the shelf. It helps you find your things fast. A tidy room feels nice to play in.
Tie\n\nA tie is a long, thin piece of cloth. It goes around the neck and hangs down in front. People wear it with a shirt for fancy times, like a party or a wedding. It can be many colors and have stripes or dots. A grown-up ties it in a knot at the top.
Tiger\n\nA tiger is a big wild cat. It has orange fur with black stripes and a white belly. No two tigers have the same stripes. It lives in Asia, in forests and places with water. It hunts alone and eats meat, like deer and pigs. Some tigers are white, but that is very rare. People can see it in a zoo.
Tiger shark\n\nA tiger shark is a big fish that lives in the warm, blue sea. It has a long, strong body with dark stripes and spots, like a tiger. It has a wide head, big eyes, and many sharp teeth. It swims near the shore and in deep water. It hunts at night and eats fish, seals, and turtles. Sometimes it even eats trash that falls in the water. It can be mean and may bite people, but that does not happen a lot.
Tight\n\nTight means something is held very close or pulled hard so there is no extra space. It is the opposite of loose. Your shoes feel tight when they are too small and squeeze your foot. A lid on a jar is tight when you cannot turn it open. A hug can be tight when someone holds you very close and does not let go.
Tigris\n\nTigris is a long river in a hot, dry part of the world. It starts in mountains far away and flows down through flat land. Long ago, people used its water to grow food like wheat and barley. They dug small paths from the river to their fields. This helped them make the first big towns. Today, many people still live near it and use its water.
Tilapia\n\nTilapia is a kind of fish. It has shiny scales and fins that help it swim. It lives in warm, fresh water like lakes and rivers. People raise it on farms to eat, and some keep it in fish tanks at home. It can be found in many parts of the world, such as Africa and South America. Sometimes, when it gets into new rivers, it can push out the fish that already lived there.
Till\n\nA till is a drawer that holds money in a store. It sits on a counter where you pay for things. When you buy a toy or some candy, the shop worker opens it to put your money inside. It has a bell that rings when it opens. Some tills have a screen that shows numbers. You might see one at the grocery store or a toy shop.
Tillage\n\nTillage is a way to get the ground ready for planting. It uses big tools pulled by a tractor or an animal to break up the hard top of the dirt. This lets air and sun go into the ground, which helps plants grow. But if people do it too much, the dirt can get tired and not work as well. Farmers do tillage before they put seeds in the field.
Timbuktu\n\nTimbuktu is a city in a country called Mali. It is in a hot, sandy place near a big desert. Long ago, it was a place where many people came to learn and to trade. People brought salt and other things to sell there. It has old buildings where people prayed and studied. Many smart people wrote books there a long time ago.
Time\n\nTime is the way we know when things happen. It moves from morning to night, and from today to tomorrow. We use clocks and watches to see what time it is. A clock has numbers and hands that move around. The sun also helps us tell time by making shadows that change during the day. Long ago, people used the sun and moon to count days and months. Now we have calendars to know the date and plan for fun days like birthdays.
Time travel\n\nTime travel is the idea of moving to a different time. It means going to the past, like yesterday, or to the future, like tomorrow. We all move forward in time every day, but time travel is about jumping far ahead or going back. In stories, people use a special machine to travel through time. One famous story is about a man who builds a time machine and visits strange new times. Another story has a funny car that can fly to the past or future. Some TV shows use magic to go to other times instead of a machine. Time travel is not real, but it is fun to think about.
Time zone\n\nA time zone is a way to tell time in different parts of the world. It is like a big clock map that cuts the Earth into 24 slices. When the sun is up in one slice, it is dark in another. People use time zones so that noon is always around the middle of the day where they live. For example, when it is morning in New York, it is already afternoon in London. Some places change their clocks by one hour in summer to have more light in the evening.
Timer\n\nA timer is a small tool that counts time. It has numbers on it and a button to start. You find it in a kitchen or on a phone. People use it to know when food is ready or when playtime is over. When the time is up, it makes a loud beep or ring.
Timor\n\nTimor is a big island in the sea. It has green hills, tall trees, and sandy beaches. You find it in a warm part of the world, near many other islands. People live on both sides of the island. Some people live in East Timor, and some live in West Timor. They grow food like corn and rice. They also catch fish in the blue water. The name means "east" because it sits at the east end of a long row of islands.
Timor Sea\n\nThe Timor Sea is a big body of water. It is not very deep, and it sits between the island of Timor and the north part of Australia. It has many small islands and reefs where no people live. Big rivers from Australia flow into it. The city of Darwin is next to it. Long ago, people may have crossed it in small boats to reach Australia.
Tin\n\nTin is a shiny, silver metal. It is soft and can bend easily. When you bend it, it makes a little crackling sound. People find tin in rocks in the ground. They heat the rocks to get the metal out. Long ago, people mixed tin with copper to make bronze. Bronze was used for tools and swords. Today, tin is used to coat other metals so they do not rust. Food cans often have a thin layer of tin inside. You might see a shiny can in your kitchen.
Tinamou\n\nA tinamou is a bird that lives on the ground. It has a round body, short legs, and small wings. It lives in forests and grassy places in warm parts of the world. It hides very well and is hard to see. It makes a soft whistling sound. It eats seeds, fruit, and little bugs.
Tiny\n\nTiny means very, very small. It is smaller than a little bug or a baby's fingernail. You can find tiny things all around you, like a grain of sand or a drop of water. When something is tiny, you might need to look very close to see it. A tiny seed can grow into a big plant.
Tip\n\nA tip is the very end of something long and thin. It is the pointy part at the top of a pencil or the end of your finger. You can also give a tip when you say a helpful hint to a friend. A tip can be a small extra coin you leave for someone who brings your food. It is a little thing that helps or finishes something.
Tire\n\nA tire is a round, rubber ring that fits on a wheel. It is black and has lines on the outside called treads. You see tires on cars, buses, and trucks. It helps the vehicle roll smoothly on the road. When the treads get worn down, the tire must be changed so the car stays safe.
Tired\n\nTired is a feeling you get when your body needs rest. It can make your eyes feel heavy and your body feel slow. You might feel tired after running, playing, or a long day at school. When you are tired, you may yawn a lot or want to lie down. The best way to fix it is to sleep or take a nap.
Tissue\n\nTissue is a group of tiny parts called cells that work together. It is found inside the bodies of animals and plants. In animals, there are four main kinds of tissue. One kind helps the body move, like in your legs. Another kind covers the outside of the body and the inside of the mouth. A third kind holds things together, like bones. The last kind sends messages, like in the brain. Organs, like the heart, are made of different tissues working together. A tissue is so small you need a special tool to see it.
Titan (moon)\n\nTitan is a big moon that goes around the planet Saturn. It is very cold and has a thick blanket of air around it. This air is not like Earth's air — people cannot breathe it. Titan has lakes and rivers, but they are not made of water. They are made of a liquid that can catch fire. It is one of the biggest moons we know. A robot from Earth once landed on it and sent back pictures.
Titan (mythology)\n\nA Titan is a big, strong being from very old Greek stories. They were the first gods and goddesses who ruled the world a long, long time ago. Later, new gods called Olympians fought them and won. After that, many Titans were sent to a deep, dark place under the ground. You can find pictures of them in books about Greek myths. They look like giant people with great power.
Title\n\nA title is the name of a book, a movie, a song, or a story. It is the big words you see on the front cover. It tells you what the thing is called. When you go to the library, you can look for a book by its title. Your favorite bedtime story has a title too.
To\n\nTo is a tiny word we use to show where something is going. It points the way, like when you say "I go to the park." It can also show who gets something, like "Give the cookie to me." You hear it all the time when people talk and in storybooks.
Toad\n\nA toad is a small animal with bumpy skin. It has four short legs and big round eyes. It lives in gardens, woods, or near water. It hops on the ground and eats bugs. You might see one after rain.
Toast\n\nToast is bread that has been made warm and brown. It is flat and feels a little crunchy on the outside. You can find it on a plate at breakfast time. People make it by putting bread in a toaster or a hot pan. It tastes good with butter, jam, or honey on top. A slice of toast is a simple food that many kids eat in the morning.
Toaster\n\nA toaster is a small machine in the kitchen. It has slots on top where you put slices of bread. When you push a button, it gets hot inside and turns the bread brown and crunchy. People use it to make toast for breakfast. You can put butter or jam on the toast after it pops up.
Today\n\nToday is the day we are in right now. It starts when the sun comes up and ends when we go to sleep at night. You can see it outside your window. We do many things today, like eat breakfast, play, and learn. Yesterday was the day before today, and tomorrow will be the day after.
Toe\n\nA toe is a small part at the end of your foot. It is short and round, and you have five of them on each foot. It helps you stand and walk without falling over. You can wiggle it, and it feels ticklish when someone touches it. Sometimes people paint the hard part at the tip with bright colors.
Tofu\n\nTofu is a soft, white food made from soybeans. It looks like a smooth block, a little like cheese. You can find it in the fridge at the grocery store. People cook it in soup, fry it in a pan, or eat it cold. It takes on the taste of the sauce or food around it. In many places like China, Japan, and Korea, people eat tofu every day. It is good for your body because it has a lot of protein.
Together\n\nTogether means two or more people or things are with each other. It is when you hold hands with a friend or sit next to someone. You can do things together like play, eat, or sing. When you are together, you are not alone. A family eats dinner together at the table.
Togo\n\nTogo is a small country in Africa. It is next to the big water called the ocean. Many people there grow food like corn, beans, and sweet potatoes. Monkeys, snakes, and lizards live in the trees and grass. The people speak French and eat yummy snacks made from peanuts.
Toilet\n\nA toilet is a bowl that you sit on to get rid of pee and poop from your body. It has a seat and a lid. You find it in a small room called a bathroom or restroom. When you are done, you push a handle or button, and water washes everything away through a pipe. Some toilets are outside in a little house called an outhouse. At big parties or parks, you might see a plastic toilet that can be moved, called a portable toilet.
Tokyo\n\nTokyo is a big city in Japan. It has many tall buildings, busy streets, and lots of people. It is near the water, by a big bay. Many trains and buses move people around the city every day. You can see a tall tower called Tokyo Tower and a very tall tower called Tokyo Skytree. There are also pretty parks and old temples to visit. Many people from all over the world live in or visit Tokyo.
Tom\n\nTom is a name for a boy or a man. It is short and easy to say. You might know a Tom at school or in your neighborhood. Sometimes a Tom has a pet or likes to play ball. He can be a friend who shares his toys with you.
Tomato\n\nA tomato is a round, smooth food that grows on a plant. It is shiny and can be red, yellow, or orange. When it is not ready to eat, it is green and hard. Inside, it has many tiny seeds and soft, juicy parts. People eat it raw in salads or on sandwiches. It is also cooked to make yummy sauces for pasta and pizza. Ketchup is made from tomatoes too. You can find it in a garden or at the grocery store.
Tomb\n\nA tomb is a small house made of stone. It holds a person who has died. You can find it in a quiet place like a graveyard. People visit it to remember someone they loved. It has a door or a big flat stone on top.
Tomorrow\n\nTomorrow is the day that comes after today. It is not here yet, but it will be here when you wake up from a night of sleep. People talk about tomorrow to say what they will do next. For example, if today you go to the park, tomorrow you might go to school. It is a new day full of things to do.
Tongs\n\nTongs are a tool you hold in one hand. It has two long arms that pinch together. You find it in the kitchen near the stove. It is used to pick up hot food so you do not burn your fingers. You might see it when someone flips meat on a grill or serves salad from a big bowl.
Tongue\n\nA tongue is the soft, pink part inside your mouth. It is a strong muscle that can move in many ways. You use it to taste food—sweet, sour, salty, and bitter. It also helps you eat by pushing food around and mixing it with spit. When you talk, it moves to make different sounds. Some people can roll their tongue into a tube shape. If you blow through the rolled tongue, you can make a funny high sound.
Tonight\n\nTonight means the night time of today. It is the dark part of the day after the sun goes down. You can see the moon and stars in the sky. People sleep at this time, but some animals like owls wake up. You might hear a bedtime story or see a nightlight in your room.
Too\n\nToo means more than enough. When you have too many cookies, you cannot eat them all. If the music is too loud, it hurts your ears. Sometimes you feel too tired to play. It is a word we use when something is bigger, louder, or more than we want.
Tool\n\nA tool is something you hold in your hand to help you do a job. It can be small like a spoon or big like a shovel. You find tools at home, in a kitchen, or in a garage. People use it to cut, hit, turn, or dig things. A hammer is a tool that hits a nail. A saw is a tool that cuts wood. Some tools need a plug to work, like a drill. Long ago, people made the first tools from sticks and stones.
Tooth\n\nA tooth is a small, hard white part inside your mouth. It has a top part you can see and a root that holds it in your gum. You use it to bite and chew food like apples or bread. You have baby teeth when you are little, and later they fall out so big teeth can grow. You brush it every day to keep it clean and shiny.
Toothache\n\nA toothache is a hurt feeling inside a tooth. It can feel like a sharp poke or a dull ache that does not go away. You feel it in your mouth, right where your teeth are. It can happen when a tooth has a tiny hole or when you eat something very cold or very hot. A dentist is a special doctor who helps fix a toothache and make the hurt stop.
Toothbrush\n\nA toothbrush is a small tool for cleaning teeth. It has a long handle and a top with soft little hairs called bristles. You find it in the bathroom near the sink. People use it with toothpaste to make teeth shiny and clean. You move it back and forth on your teeth every morning and night. A toothbrush can be many colors, and some have a fun picture on the handle.
Top\n\nA top is a piece of clothing. It covers the upper part of your body. You can find it in a closet or a store. People wear it with pants or a skirt. A t-shirt is a kind of top.
Topic\n\nA topic is what you talk or learn about. It is the big idea of a story, a lesson, or a chat. When you sit in a circle and share, you pick a topic like pets or colors. It helps everyone know what to think about. A teacher might say, "Today our topic is the sun." Then you all learn about that one thing.
Topology\n\nTopology is a kind of math that looks at shapes. It does not care about how big or small a shape is. It cares about how the shape is connected. For example, a donut and a coffee cup are the same in this math because each has one hole. You can stretch or bend the shape, but you cannot tear it. This math helps people understand maps and knots.
Torah\n\nTorah is a very special set of books. It has five parts, like five big chapters. People read it in a quiet place called a synagogue. It tells old stories about how the world began and about a man named Moses. Many families keep one at home and read it together.
Torch\n\nA torch is a stick with fire on top. It has a long handle you can hold. The fire part is bright and hot. People used it long ago to see in the dark. You might see one in a story about a castle or a cave.
Tornado\n\nA tornado is a spinning tube of air that touches the ground. It looks like a dark, twisting cloud that comes down from a big storm. You can see it in places with strong thunderstorms, especially in the middle of the United States. It spins very fast and can break houses, toss cars, and knock down trees. If you hear a loud roar like a train, you should go to a safe room with no windows right away.
Toronto\n\nToronto is a big city in Canada. It sits next to a very large lake called Lake Ontario. It has many tall buildings, like the CN Tower, which is one of the tallest towers in the world. People from all over the world live there and speak many different languages. You can see animals at the Toronto Zoo or ride fun rides at Canada's Wonderland. It has teams for hockey, basketball, and baseball. Many visitors come to see the big buildings and eat food from different countries.
Torpedo\n\nA torpedo is a long, thin weapon that moves under the water. It has a sharp front and a spinning tail that pushes it forward. People launch it from a ship or a submarine. It swims by itself toward a target and then goes bang when it gets close. Sailors use it to stop other ships in a fight.
Tortoise\n\nA tortoise is an animal that lives on land. It has a hard shell on its back to keep it safe. It moves very slowly on four short legs. You can find it in warm, dry places like deserts or grassy fields. It eats plants like grass and leaves. A tortoise can live for a very, very long time, longer than many other animals.
Toucan\n\nA toucan is a bright bird that lives in warm, rainy forests. It has black feathers and a very big, colorful beak. The beak looks heavy, but it is light and helps it pick fruit from trees. It lives high up in the trees and sleeps inside tree holes. It flies short hops from tree to tree. You might see a picture of it on a cereal box or in a book about jungle animals.
Touch\n\nTouch is when you feel something with your skin. It happens when your hand or finger meets a thing. You can touch a soft teddy bear, a cold ice cube, or a warm blanket. Your skin tells your brain if the thing is smooth, bumpy, hot, or cold. Touch helps you learn about the world without using your eyes.
Touchscreen\n\nA touchscreen is a special screen you can touch with your finger to make things happen. It is flat and smooth, like the front of a tablet or phone. You find it on smartphones, tablets, and some computers. When you tap or swipe it, it tells the device what to do. For example, you can play a game or draw a picture just by moving your finger on it.
Tour de France\n\nThe Tour de France is a big bike race. It happens every summer in a country called France. Many bike riders go very fast on roads for many days. The rider who finishes first each day gets a special shirt. A yellow shirt is for the fastest rider of all. A green shirt is for the rider who goes fast on flat roads. A shirt with dots is for the rider who is best at going up hills. The race ends in a big city with a tall tower. People all over the world watch it on TV.
Tourism\n\nTourism is when people go to new places to have fun. It means taking a trip to see pretty things, like a big mountain or a blue sea. People who do this are called tourists. They might sleep in a tent or a hotel. They might look at old buildings or play on a sandy beach. Some places have many tourists every year. This can be good because it brings money. But it can also make a mess if people leave trash. It is important to keep the place clean for the animals and people who live there.
Toward\n\nToward means moving closer to something. When you walk toward the door, you get nearer to it. It can also mean looking or facing a way. If you turn toward the window, you can see outside. It is a word that tells which way you go.
Towel\n\nA towel is a soft piece of cloth. It is often square or long like a rectangle. You find it in the bathroom or at the pool. People use it to dry their hands, face, or body after a bath or a swim. It soaks up water so you feel warm and dry. Some towels are fluffy and some are thin. A beach towel is big and colorful.
Tower\n\nA tower is a very tall, thin building. It is much taller than it is wide. People do not live inside it like a house. You can see towers on old castles, where they helped people look far away. Today, some towers hold up big bridges. Other towers send signals for radios and phones. A tall clock tower in a town is one kind of tower you might see.
Tower Bridge\n\nTower Bridge is a big bridge in London. It has two tall towers and a road that can open up in the middle. When a tall boat comes, the road lifts high so the boat can go through. It is painted blue and white, and many people visit it to take pictures. You can walk across the top part and look down at the river. It is very old and very strong.
Town\n\nA town is a place where many people live. It has houses, streets, and shops. It is bigger than a village but smaller than a city. You can find a town in many parts of the world. People in a town work in stores, offices, or small factories. Some towns have a park where children play. A town might have a school, a library, and a fire station. If you visit a town, you can walk on the sidewalk and see many buildings close together.
Toxicity\n\nToxicity is how much a thing can hurt a living body. It tells us if something is safe or if it can make us sick. Some things are very toxic, like snake poison. Even water can be toxic if a person drinks way too much at once. A small bit of a toxic thing may not hurt at all, but a big bit can be very bad. Doctors and scientists study toxicity to keep people safe. They test things on animals or in labs, not on people. If someone touches or eats something toxic by accident, a doctor can help.
Toy\n\nA toy is a thing you play with. It can be soft or hard, big or small. You find toys at home, in a store, or at a friend's house. People use toys to have fun and make up stories. A ball is a toy you can throw and catch. A doll is a toy that looks like a tiny person. Some toys roll, some make noise, and some you can hug. Toys are for kids, grown-ups, and even pets.
Trace\n\nA trace is a tiny mark left behind by something. It can be a line, a shape, or a small spot. You might see a trace of a snail on the ground—a shiny, wet line. A pencil can leave a trace on paper when you draw. You can also trace a picture by putting paper on top and copying the lines. A trace shows where something has been.
Track\n\nA track is a long, flat path made for running, walking, or riding. It can be made of dirt, rubber, or hard ground. You can find a track at a school, a park, or a sports field. People use it to run races or ride bikes in circles. Sometimes a train runs on a metal track too.
Track and field athletics\n\nTrack and field is a sport where people run, jump, and throw things. It happens on a big oval track and a grassy field inside it. Runners race on the track, and jumpers and throwers play on the field. Kids do it at school for fun, and grown-ups do it in big games like the Olympics. You might see a friend run fast or jump over a bar.
Tractor\n\nA tractor is a big, strong machine that pulls heavy things. It has very large wheels with deep bumps to grip the ground. You see it on farms, where it pulls plows to dig the dirt. It also pulls trailers full of food or hay. A farmer sits on the seat and drives it slowly across the field. Some tractors have rubber tracks instead of wheels so they do not sink in soft mud.
Trade\n\nTrade is when people give things to each other. It can be a toy for a snack, or a snack for a toy. Sometimes people use money to trade. You give money and get a toy. That is buying. The person who gives the toy gets money. That is selling. A long time ago, people traded without money. They gave one thing for another thing. That is called barter. You can see trade at a store or a market. Mom and Dad trade money for food at the store. Trade helps people get what they need.
Trade union\n\nA trade union is a group of workers who join together. They talk to the boss about pay, hours, and safety. If the boss says no, they may stop working for a short time. This is called a strike. It helps workers get fair treatment at their job.
Tradition\n\nA tradition is something people do again and again, often on a special day. It can be a fun game, a song, or a food that a family makes together. You might see it at a birthday party or a holiday like Christmas. It helps people feel close and remember happy times. For example, some families always eat cake on the first day of school.
Traditional\n\nTraditional means something that people have done for a long, long time. It is a way of doing things that moms, dads, grandmas, and grandpas did before. You can see it in special clothes, songs, or food that a family makes on a holiday. It is like a story that gets passed down. For example, eating cake on a birthday is a traditional thing many families do.
Traditional Chinese medicine\n\nTraditional Chinese medicine is a very old way of helping sick people feel better. It started in China a long, long time ago. It uses plants, tiny needles, cups that stick to the skin, and soft rubbing to help the body. It also uses slow moving and breathing to keep the body strong. It tries to make the inside of the body calm and even, like a quiet pond.
Traditional medicine\n\nTraditional medicine is a way to help sick people feel better. It uses old ideas that moms, dads, and grandparents share in a family or a town. People use plants, leaves, roots, and warm drinks to make the body strong. In some places, a wise person in the village knows which plant to pick for a tummy ache or a cold. It is different from the medicine you get at a big store or a doctor's office today.
Traffic\n\nTraffic is many cars, trucks, and buses moving on a road. It can look like a long line of vehicles waiting. You see it on big streets and highways, especially when people go to work or come home. Sometimes it moves very slowly, and you have to wait. A red light or a crossing guard can stop traffic so people can walk safely.
Traffic collision\n\nA traffic collision is when a car or truck bumps into something. It can hit another car, a person, or a thing on the road. It often hurts people and breaks things. Many people get hurt in these bumps every year. Roads can be made safer with special paths and safe places to cross.
Tragedy (Greek theatre)\n\nA tragedy is a kind of play with a sad ending. It is a story where the main person has a good heart but one big problem that brings trouble. In the play, the person tries to stop a bad thing from happening, but it happens anyway. Long ago, people in Greece acted out these plays at big parties for their gods. Today, people still watch sad plays and sometimes cry. A tragedy can also mean a very sad thing in real life, like when someone gets hurt.
Trail\n\nA trail is a path on the ground for walking. It is a long, thin line of dirt, rocks, or grass. You can find it in a forest, a park, or on a hill. People walk on it to see trees, flowers, and animals. Some trails are short, and some are very long. You might ride a bike on it or walk with your family. A trail helps you go from one place to another without getting lost.
Train\n\nA train is a long line of cars that move on tracks. It has a strong engine at the front that pulls the rest. You can see it at a train station, where people get on and off. It carries people from one place to another, and it also carries big boxes of food, toys, and other things. Some trains go very fast, and some go under the ground in big cities. When you hear a loud whistle and see a long line of metal cars on rails, that is a train.
Train station\n\nA train station is a place where people get on and off trains. It has a long, flat area next to the train tracks called a platform. You can find it in towns and cities. People use it to travel to other places. You might see a ticket window where you buy a paper to ride the train. Some stations have benches to sit on and a roof to keep you dry when it rains. Big stations may have a small shop to buy snacks.
Tram\n\nA tram is a long box on wheels that carries people. It looks like a small train and runs on metal tracks. You can see it on streets in big cities. It stops at special places so people can get on and off. Many people ride it together instead of using a car. Some trams are old and pretty, and some are new and bendy in the middle. In some cities, trams have two floors.
Transformer\n\nA transformer is a box that changes how strong electricity is. It has two loops of wire inside, wrapped around a metal middle. You can see it on a pole near your house or on the ground in a big metal box. It makes the strong power from far-away wires safe for lights and toys at home. It does not make new power; it only changes the push of the power.
Translation\n\nTranslation is when you change words from one language to another. It helps people who speak different languages understand each other. A person who does this is called a translator. They use a special book to find the right words. Sometimes they change spoken words, and then they are called an interpreter. You can also use a computer to translate. Google Translate is a free tool that does this on the internet.
Transmit\n\nTransmit means to send something from one place to another. It is like when you throw a ball to a friend. A radio can transmit music through the air to a speaker. A phone can transmit your voice so someone far away can hear you. It is a way to move a message or a signal without carrying it yourself.
Transport\n\nTransport is how people and things move from one place to another. It uses roads, train tracks, water paths, and sky paths. Cars, buses, trains, boats, and planes are all ways to move. You see transport every day when you ride in a car or see a big truck on the street.
Trash\n\nTrash is stuff we throw away. It can be old food, paper, or broken toys. You find it in a trash can at home or on the street. People put it in a big bin, and a truck takes it away. We should not drop it on the ground because it makes places dirty.
Travel\n\nTravel is going from one place to another. It can be a short trip, like going to the store, or a long trip, like going to a new city. People travel in cars, on buses, on trains, or in big flying machines called planes. Some people travel to see new things and have fun. They may sleep in a hotel or a tent. A family trip to the beach is one kind of travel.
Tray\n\nA tray is a flat, wide thing you use to carry food or drinks. It can be made of wood, plastic, or shiny metal. You often see it in a kitchen or at a restaurant. A waiter holds it to bring plates and cups to the table. At home, you might use it to have breakfast in bed or to carry snacks to the living room.
Treasure\n\nA treasure is a hidden box of special things. It is often full of gold coins, shiny jewels, and pretty stones. You can find it buried under the ground or inside a big wooden chest. Pirates in stories look for treasure on faraway islands. Sometimes people hide a treasure for others to find as a fun game.
Treat\n\nA treat is something nice you get as a surprise. It can be a sweet snack like a cookie or a piece of candy. Sometimes it is a fun activity, like watching a movie or going to the park. You might get a treat when you do something good, like sharing toys or finishing your food. It makes you feel happy and special.
Tree\n\nA tree is a tall plant with a hard, woody stem called a trunk. It has roots under the ground, a thick trunk covered in bark, and many branches that spread out. The branches hold leaves, which are usually green and flat. You can find trees almost everywhere—in parks, forests, and even along streets. Trees give us shade on a sunny day. They also make the air fresh and clean for us to breathe. Many animals live in trees, like birds that build nests in the branches. Some trees grow fruit that we can eat, like apples or oranges. In the fall, the leaves of some trees turn red, yellow, or orange before they drop to the ground.
Treehouse\n\nA treehouse is a small play house built up in a tree. It has walls, a roof, and a floor made of wood. You find it in a backyard or a park, high above the ground. Kids climb a ladder or a rope to get inside. It is a fun place to play, read, or have a snack with friends. Some treehouses have a little window to look out at the birds and leaves.
Trial\n\nA trial is a meeting in a big room called a court. It has two sides who do not agree. One side says the other side did something wrong. A judge sits at the front and makes sure everyone follows the rules. The judge wears a long black coat. Sometimes a group of people called a jury listens and decides who is right. If the side that did wrong is found guilty, the judge may say they must pay money or go to a special building called a prison. Trials can be short or take a very long time.
Triangle\n\nA triangle is a flat shape with three straight sides. It has three pointy corners. You can see triangles in many places, like on a road sign or a slice of pizza. It is the shape with the fewest sides you can draw. Some triangles have all sides the same length, and some have two sides the same. A triangle can also have a corner that is very wide, like a door that is open. People use triangles to build strong bridges and roofs.
Triangulum galaxy\n\nThe Triangulum galaxy is a big group of stars far away in space. It looks like a spinning pinwheel with long, loose arms made of stars. You can find it in the night sky, but it is very, very far from Earth. It is one of the biggest star groups near our own star group, the Milky Way. On a very dark night, some people can see it without a telescope. It is also called the Pinwheel galaxy because of its shape.
Tribe\n\nA tribe is a big family of people who live together. They share the same land, the same songs, and the same stories. A tribe has a leader called a chief who helps everyone. They work as a team: some people hunt, some cook, and some take care of the little ones. Long ago, all people lived in tribes before big cities were built. Today, some tribes still live in forests or deserts, moving from place to place to find food and water.
Triceratops\n\nTriceratops is a big dinosaur that lived a long, long time ago. It had a huge head with three sharp horns on its face—one on the nose and two above the eyes. It also had a wide, hard shield of bone around its neck. It walked on four strong legs and had a short tail. It ate only plants, using its beak to bite leaves. You can see its bones in some museums.
Trick\n\nA trick is something you do to make someone think one thing when another thing is true. It can be a fun game, like when you hide a toy behind your back and ask a friend to guess which hand it is in. A magician does a trick to make you see something that looks like magic. Sometimes a trick is not nice, like when someone tells a lie to get a cookie. A trick can be a clever way to solve a puzzle, too.
Tricky\n\nTricky means something is hard to do or understand. It is like a puzzle that makes you think a lot. You might find a tricky toy that has many buttons. A tricky game can be fun but takes time to learn. Sometimes a tricky path has many turns and is easy to get lost on.
Trigonometry\n\nTrigonometry is a kind of math about shapes called triangles. It looks at the sides and corners of a triangle and how they fit together. You can use it to find out how tall a tree is without climbing it. People who build houses and bridges use it to make things strong and straight. It is a big-kid math that you will learn when you are older.
Trilobite\n\nA trilobite is a very old animal that lived in the sea a long, long time ago. It had a hard shell on its back, and its body was split into three parts: a head, a middle with many pieces, and a tail. It had many tiny legs under its shell. Some trilobites had big eyes on top, and some had no eyes at all. It crawled on the sea floor or swam in the water. You can see its hard shell in rocks today, because it turned into a fossil. A fossil is like a stone picture of an animal from long ago.
Trinidad and Tobago\n\nTrinidad and Tobago is a country made of two big islands and many tiny islands. It sits in the warm blue sea near another country called Venezuela. The biggest town is called Port-of-Spain. Many different people live there, and they speak English. The islands have music, dancing, and a fun party called Carnival. People also play football and cricket. Some visitors come to see the pretty beaches and green hills.
Trip\n\nA trip is when you go away from home to see a new place. It can be short, like going to the park, or long, like riding in a car to the beach. You pack a bag with clothes and snacks. On a trip, you might sleep in a different bed or see big mountains. It is fun because everything feels new and exciting.
Triton (moon)\n\nTriton is a big moon that goes around the planet Neptune. It is a round ball made of ice and rock. It is very, very cold — colder than any other place we know. The ground on Triton has cracks and flat parts, and sometimes ice shoots up like a fountain. A space robot flew past it once and took pictures. Triton is far away in the dark part of space.
Trombone\n\nA trombone is a shiny brass horn that makes music. It has a long tube that slides in and out. You blow into a mouthpiece and move the slide to change the sound. It plays low, loud notes in bands and orchestras. You might see it in a marching band at a parade.
Tropic of Cancer\n\nThe Tropic of Cancer is an invisible line that goes all the way around the Earth. It sits above the middle of the Earth, a little bit north. On the longest day of summer, the sun shines straight down on this line at noon. You can see it drawn on big maps and globes. It helps people know how hot or cold a place might be.
Tropic of Capricorn\n\nThe Tropic of Capricorn is an invisible line on the Earth. It is far down on the map, below the middle. It is one of the big lines that help us know where places are. On one special day in December, the sun shines straight down on this line. It goes through many lands, like big dry places and wide blue seas. Long ago, people gave it a name from the stars they saw.
Tropical\n\nTropical means a place that is warm all year long. It is near the middle of the Earth, where the sun shines straight down. You can find thick green forests, tall palm trees, and bright flowers there. Many colorful birds, monkeys, and big bugs live in tropical places. It often rains a lot, and the air feels wet and sticky. Some people go to tropical islands for vacation to play on sandy beaches and swim in warm blue water.
Tropical climate\n\nA tropical climate is a kind of weather that stays warm all year. It feels hot and sticky because the air has a lot of water in it. You can find it in places near the middle of the Earth, like big rainforests. It rains a lot there, often in the afternoon. Some places have a long rainy time and a long dry time. It never gets cold enough for snow or ice. Many different plants and animals live in this warm, wet weather.
Tropical cyclone\n\nA tropical cyclone is a big spinning storm that starts over warm ocean water. It has fast winds and lots of rain. The middle of it is called the eye, which is quiet and calm. Around the eye is a ring of the strongest wind and heaviest rain. It can move from the sea onto land, where it can knock down trees and cause floods. People give it a name so they can talk about it easily. In some places it is called a hurricane or a typhoon.
Tropical rainforest\n\nA tropical rainforest is a warm, wet forest with lots of tall trees. It has many layers, like a big green cake. The top layer has the tallest trees that touch the sky. Under that is a thick roof of leaves where monkeys and birds live. Lower down it is dark and quiet, with big leaves and small bushes. The ground is shady and open, with ants and snakes. It is home to more animals and plants than any other place on Earth. You can find it near the middle of the world, where it is hot and rains almost every day.
Tropics\n\nThe tropics are the warm parts of the Earth near the middle. It is a big belt around the planet, close to a line called the equator. In the tropics, the sun shines straight down from high in the sky, so it is hot most of the year. Many places there have lots of rain, so big green forests grow. Some parts are dry like deserts with sand. You can find colorful birds, monkeys, and big cats living there. Some mountains in the tropics are so tall they have snow on top.
Trouble\n\nTrouble is when something goes wrong or feels hard. It can be a big mess, like spilling paint on the floor. It can also be a sad or scary feeling inside. When you break a toy by accident, that is trouble. Sometimes trouble means you did something you should not do. A grown-up can help fix it and make things better.
Trouser\n\nA trouser is a piece of clothing that covers your legs. It has two long parts, one for each leg, and goes from your waist down to your feet. You can find trousers in a closet or a drawer at home. People wear trousers to keep their legs warm and to look nice. You might see trousers in many colors like blue, black, or brown. When you go to school or play outside, you often wear trousers.
Trousers\n\nTrousers are a piece of clothing for the lower part of the body. They have two long parts that cover each leg all the way down. You put them on one leg at a time. People wear trousers at the hips or waist, and they stay up with a belt or straps over the shoulders. You can see trousers in many colors like blue, black, or brown. Both boys and girls wear them to school, to play, or at home.
Trout\n\nA trout is a fish that lives in cold, clean water. It has a long body covered with small, shiny scales. You can find it in rivers, streams, and lakes. It swims fast and jumps out of the water to catch bugs. Some people like to fish for trout and then cook it for dinner.
Truck\n\nA truck is a big, strong car that carries heavy things. It has a front part where the driver sits, and a big open space in the back to hold boxes, sand, or other stuff. You can see trucks on roads and highways every day. Some trucks bring food to stores, some carry dirt and rocks, and some help put out fires with water and long hoses. A garbage truck picks up trash from houses and takes it away. Trucks are very useful because they move things that are too big or heavy for a small car.
True\n\nTrue means something is right or correct. It is the opposite of false. When you say the sky is blue, that is true. In a game, if you guess the right answer, your guess is true. It helps us know what is real and what is not.
True bug\n\nA true bug is a tiny animal with six legs. It has a long, thin mouth like a straw. It uses the straw to drink juice from plants. Many true bugs have wings that are hard at the front and soft at the back. You can find them in gardens, on leaves, or near flowers. Some true bugs are very small, and some are as big as your thumb. They do not chew food; they only sip.
Truffle\n\nA truffle is a kind of mushroom that grows under the ground. It looks like a lumpy, round rock and can be black or white. It grows near the roots of trees like oak trees. People use it in cooking to make food taste very special. It has a strong smell, and some people think it smells like nuts or earth. Because it is hard to find, it costs a lot of money. Trained dogs help people find it by sniffing the ground.
Truly\n\nTruly means something is real and not made up. When you say "I truly love my dog," it means your love is very real. It is a word you use to show you mean what you say. You might hear a friend say "I am truly sorry" after they break your toy. That means they feel very sad about it for real.
Trumpet\n\nA trumpet is a shiny metal tube that makes music. It has a wide end like a bell and three buttons on top. You blow into one end and make a buzzing sound with your lips. The buttons change how high or low the sound is. You can hear it in bands, parades, and happy songs. Some people play it in big rooms with many other instruments.
Trunk\n\nA trunk is the long, bendy nose of an elephant. It is very strong and can pick up heavy things like logs. It also has a little finger-like tip at the end to grab small things like a peanut. An elephant uses it to drink water, smell faraway smells, and make loud sounds. You can see it at the zoo when an elephant swings its nose up and down.
Trunk (botany)\n\nA trunk is the big, thick part of a tree. It stands up from the ground and holds up all the branches and leaves. It is covered with bark, which is like a hard coat that keeps the tree safe. Inside, it has rings that show how old the tree is. You can see a trunk in a park or a forest. People cut it into logs to build things like tables and houses.
Trust\n\nTrust is a warm feeling you have when you know someone is safe and kind. It is like a soft blanket around your heart. You feel it with your mom, dad, or a good friend. When you tell a secret and they keep it safe, that is trust. It grows slowly, like a little plant, when people are nice to you again and again. You can also trust a pet, like a dog who sits by you when you are sad.
Trust (social science)\n\nTrust is a warm feeling that someone or something is good and safe. It is like holding a friend's hand and knowing they will not let go. You find it with your mom, your dad, and your best friend. It helps you feel brave to try new things because you know someone will catch you if you fall. When you share a secret with your big sister and she keeps it, that is trust.
Truth\n\nTruth is when something is real or right. It is the opposite of a lie or a made-up story. When you say what really happened, you tell the truth. People feel good when they hear the truth. A friend who always tells the truth is a good friend.
Try\n\nTo try means to do something new or hard, even if you are not sure you can do it. When you try, you give it your best. You can try to tie your shoes, try a new food, or try to catch a ball. It is okay if you do not get it right the first time. Trying helps you learn and grow.
Tsetse fly\n\nA tsetse fly is a big biting fly that lives in hot parts of Africa. It has a strong body and a sharp mouth to bite animals and people. It drinks blood to live. This fly can carry a sickness that makes people very sleepy. It is found near rivers, in forests, or on wide grassy lands. A mother fly keeps her baby inside her body and feeds it a milky liquid. When the baby comes out, it digs into the ground and grows into an adult fly.
Tsunami\n\nA tsunami is a very big wave in the ocean. It is not like a normal wave at the beach. It starts when the ground under the water shakes hard, or when a big rock falls into the water. The wave moves very fast across the sea. When it gets close to land, it grows tall and crashes onto the shore. It can knock down trees, cars, and houses. Sometimes the water pulls back far from the beach before the big wave comes. People who see this should run to a high place right away. A tsunami can happen in the big ocean, but it can also happen in a big lake. It is very strong and can hurt many people.
Tuatara\n\nA tuatara is a very old kind of animal that looks like a lizard, but it is not a lizard. It has rough, green-brown skin and a row of little spikes down its back. It lives only on some small islands near New Zealand. It hides in holes during the day and comes out at night to eat bugs and worms. It has a special spot on top of its head that can feel sunlight, almost like a tiny extra eye. A tuatara grows very slowly and can live for a very long time, even more than 100 years.
Tub\n\nA tub is a big, open bowl. It can be made of hard, smooth stuff like plastic or metal. You find it in a bathroom. People fill it with warm water and soap to take a bath. A baby might splash and play with a toy duck in it.
Tuba\n\nA tuba is a very big brass instrument that makes low, deep sounds. It is the biggest of all the brass instruments in an orchestra. It has a wide bell at the top and long tubes that wrap around. You blow into a mouthpiece to play it, and it takes a lot of air. It can play loud, booming notes or soft, quiet ones. You can see a tuba in a marching band or hear it in a song on the radio.
Tube\n\nA tube is a long, round, empty shape. It looks like a straw or a pipe. You can find tubes in many places, like in a roll of paper towels or a hose in the yard. People use tubes to move water, air, or other things from one place to another. A drinking straw is a tube that helps you sip your juice.
Tuesday\n\nTuesday is a day of the week. It comes after Monday and before Wednesday. On Tuesday, many children go to school and grown-ups go to work. Some people have music class or sports practice on this day. It is one of seven days that make a whole week.
Tug of war\n\nTug of war is a game where two teams pull on a rope. It has a long rope with a mark in the middle. You can play it outside on grass or in a park. Each team holds one end of the rope and pulls hard. The team that pulls the other team over a line wins. Sometimes there is a mud pit in the middle, and the losing team falls in. It is a fun game to play with friends at a party or on a field day.
Tulip\n\nA tulip is a pretty flower that grows from a bulb in the ground. It has a long green stem and a cup-shaped bloom at the top. You can find it in gardens, parks, and flower shops. People plant it in the fall so it can bloom in spring. It comes in many bright colors like red, yellow, pink, and purple. Holland is a country famous for growing lots of tulips.
Tummy\n\nA tummy is the soft, round part in the middle of your body. It is below your chest and above your legs. When you eat food, it goes into your tummy. Sometimes your tummy makes a funny noise when you are hungry. You can feel it move when you laugh really hard.
Tuna\n\nTuna is a big fish that lives in the ocean. It has a smooth, shiny body and can swim very fast. Its meat is pink or red, not white like other fish. People catch tuna to eat, and you can find it in cans at the store. Some tuna are very big, as long as a car. Fishermen use big nets or long fishing lines to catch it. Tuna eats smaller fish and squid. It is a strong swimmer that travels far across the sea.
Tundra\n\nTundra is a big, open land where it is very cold. It has no tall trees because the ground is frozen deep down. In winter, the land is covered with snow and ice. In summer, the top of the ground gets soft, but just a little bit. Small plants like moss and tiny flowers grow close to the ground. Animals with thick fur live there, like white foxes and big bears. Some birds fly there in summer to lay eggs. The tundra is far up north, near the top of the world.
Tune\n\nA tune is a set of sounds that go up and down in a nice way. It is like a song you can hum or whistle. You hear a tune when someone plays a piano, a guitar, or a flute. It can make you feel happy, calm, or want to dance. A tune you know might be the one from your favorite cartoon.
Tunis\n\nTunis is a big city in a country called Tunisia. It has many buildings, streets, and people. It is the most important city in that country, like a leader city. Many people live there, and even more live in the towns around it. You can find old markets and new shops there. People in Tunis speak a language called Arabic.
Tunisia\n\nTunisia is a country in the north of Africa. It has a long coast next to a big blue sea. Much of the south is covered by a hot, sandy desert. The biggest city is called Tunis, and many people live there. Long ago, people built a famous city named Carthage near the sea. Today, people in Tunisia grow fruits and olives, and visitors come to see the old places and enjoy the sun.
Tunnel\n\nA tunnel is a long hole under the ground. It is like a big tube that people, cars, or trains can go through. You can find a tunnel under a hill, under a city, or even under the sea. It helps people get from one side to the other without going over the top. Some tunnels are made for water pipes or wires. A very long tunnel goes under the sea between two countries.
Turaco\n\nA turaco is a colorful bird that lives in Africa. It has bright green and red feathers, a tall crest on its head, and a long tail. It lives in trees in warm places like forests and woods. It eats fruit, leaves, and flowers, and it loves figs. It is not a strong flyer, but it runs fast on its strong legs. You might see one in a zoo or a picture book about birds.
Turbine\n\nA turbine is a machine that spins around very fast. It has blades that look like a fan or a pinwheel. You can find it inside big power plants, windmills, and jet engines. It uses wind, water, or hot steam to turn and make power. For example, a windmill has a turbine that spins when the wind blows, and that helps make lights turn on in houses.
Turkey\n\nTurkey is a country that sits in two parts of the world. It has land in Europe and land in Asia. It has big cities, old buildings, and long beaches by the sea. People in Turkey speak Turkish and eat foods like flat bread with meat and sweet honey cakes. Many people visit Turkey to swim in the blue water and see old stone places.
Turkish language\n\nTurkish is a way people talk and write. It is used in the country of Turkey and some other places. It has its own set of letters, like a secret code. Some letters have little marks on them. Long ago, people wrote it with different shapes, but a leader changed it so more people could learn. Now many people can read and write it.
Turkmenistan\n\nTurkmenistan is a country far away. It is in the middle of Asia. It has no ocean next to it, but it touches a big lake called the Caspian Sea. Most of the land is a hot, dry desert with lots of sand. People there speak their own language and many follow a religion called Islam. The biggest city is Ashgabat, where the leader works.
Turn\n\nA turn is when something moves in a circle or changes the way it faces. It can be a spin, like when you twist around on one foot. You see a turn when a car goes around a corner on the street. People use a turn when they dance or play a game and need to go a new way. A turn can also be your chance to do something, like when you wait for your turn on the swing.
Turnip\n\nA turnip is a round vegetable that grows under the ground. It has a white or purple top and a pointy tip at the bottom. You can find it in gardens or at the store. People cook it in soup or mash it like potatoes. It tastes a little sweet and a little sharp. Some turnips are small for people to eat, and some are big for farm animals.
Turtle\n\nA turtle is an animal with a hard shell on its back. It has four short legs, a small tail, and a head that can hide inside the shell. You can find turtles in many places like ponds, rivers, and oceans. It moves slowly on land but swims well in water. A turtle eats plants, bugs, or small fish. It lays eggs in sand or dirt and the baby turtles hatch on their own.
Tutsan\n\nTutsan is a small bush with pretty yellow flowers. It has green leaves that come out in spring and fall off in fall. After the flowers, it grows red berries that turn black when they are ready. Some people use parts of it to help with small hurts. You might see it in a garden or near a path.
Tv\n\nA TV is a big box with a flat screen. It shows moving pictures and plays sounds. You can find it in many living rooms at home. People use it to watch cartoons, shows, and movies. When you press a button on a remote, the screen lights up and you can see your favorite characters.
Twelve\n\nTwelve is a number. It comes after eleven and before thirteen. You can count twelve things, like twelve eggs in a box or twelve cookies on a plate. A clock has twelve numbers on its face. When the big hand points to twelve, it means a new hour starts. Twelve is also how many months are in one year.
Twenty\n\nTwenty is a number. It comes after nineteen and before twenty-one. If you have ten fingers and ten toes, that is twenty all together. You can count twenty crayons in a box or twenty kids in a classroom. It is two groups of ten.
Twice\n\nTwice means two times. If you clap your hands once, and then you clap them again, you clapped twice. It is a way to say something happened two times. You might ask for a snack twice, or jump twice on one foot. It is a small number that is easy to count.
Twin\n\nA twin is one of two babies born at the same time. They share a mommy's tummy together. Some twins look exactly the same, like two peas in a pod. Other twins look different, just like any brother or sister. You might see twins at school or at the park. They often have a special friend to play with from the very first day.
Twinkle\n\nTwinkle is a quick, bright flash of light. It looks like a tiny star blinking on and off. You can see a twinkle in the night sky when stars shine. You can also see it on shiny things like a clean spoon or a diamond ring. When you sing 'Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star,' you are singing about this pretty light.
Two\n\nTwo is a number. It comes after one and before three. You can see it when you count your hands, feet, eyes, or ears. When you have one cookie and a friend gives you one more, you have two cookies. It is a small number that helps you count things in pairs.
Type\n\nType is a way to sort things into groups. It means things that are alike in some way. For example, a dog and a cat are both a type of pet. A car and a bus are a type of thing that moves on wheels. You can use type to talk about food, like fruit is a type of sweet food. It helps us put things together when they are the same.
Typewriter\n\nA typewriter is a machine that puts letters on paper. It has many small buttons called keys. When you press a key, a metal arm hits a ribbon and leaves a letter on the page. People used it before computers to write letters and stories. It does not need a plug or a screen. You can still see one in old movies or at a grandparent's house.
Tyrannosaurus\n\nTyrannosaurus was a very big dinosaur that lived a long, long time ago. It walked on two strong back legs and had a huge head with a big mouth full of sharp teeth. Its front arms were very small, but they were strong. It had a long, heavy tail that helped it stand up straight. You can see its big bones in some museums. In books and movies, it is often called the king of the dinosaurs.
Tyrant flycatcher\n\nA tyrant flycatcher is a kind of bird. It has a small body, two wings, and a beak. It lives in America, from the north all the way to the south. It eats bugs that it catches while flying in the air. Some kinds also eat fruit or tiny frogs. It is a brave bird that chases away bigger birds to keep its home safe.
Uffizi\n\nUffizi is a big, old building in a city called Florence. It has two long parts that face each other with a yard in the middle. Inside, it is full of beautiful paintings and statues from long ago. People from all over the world come to see the art. Some paintings are of ladies in pretty dresses, and some show stories from the old days. It is a very busy place, and sometimes you have to wait in a long line to go in.
Uganda\n\nUganda is a country in Africa. It has green hills, big lakes, and many farms. People grow coffee and tea there. Many children play football, and it is the most loved sport.
Ukraine\n\nUkraine is a big country far away. It has green fields, rivers, and a big sea to the south. Many people live there, and they speak a language called Ukrainian. The biggest city is Kyiv. Long ago, brave people built a strong home there. Today, people grow food, sing songs, and have their own flag. The flag has two colors: blue on top like the sky, and yellow on the bottom like a field of wheat.
Ulaanbaatar\n\nUlaanbaatar is a big city. It is the capital of a country called Mongolia. It is very cold there in winter. Many people live in the city, almost half of all the people in the country. It has tall buildings, shops, and schools. A river runs through the city. Long ago, it was a place for monks to live and pray. Now it is the most important city in Mongolia.
Ultrasound\n\nUltrasound is a kind of sound that is too high for people to hear. It is like a very, very high whistle. Some animals, like dogs, bats, and dolphins, can hear it. Doctors use it to look inside a mommy's tummy to see a baby before it is born. It is safe and does not hurt. People also use it to clean small things like rings and watches.
Uluru\n\nUluru is a giant rock in the middle of Australia. It is very big and looks red, especially when the sun goes down. The land around it is flat and dry, with red sand and small bushes. Long ago, the first people of Australia, called the Anangu, made this place special for their stories and songs. Today, many people visit it to see its big shape and pretty colors. It is one of the most famous rocks in the whole world.
Umbrella\n\nAn umbrella is a tool that keeps you dry when it rains. It has a long stick in the middle and a big round top made of cloth. You can open it and close it with a button. When it is open, it looks like a little roof over your head. People carry it outside on rainy days. Some umbrellas are small and fit in a bag. Others are big and can cover two people. You might see one at home or in a store.
Uncle\n\nAn uncle is the brother of your mom or your dad. He is a grown-up man in your family. You might see him at family parties or when he comes to visit. He can play with you, tell funny stories, or give you a piggyback ride. Some uncles live close by, and some live far away. He loves you and is happy to see you.
Under\n\nUnder means something is below or beneath another thing. It is the opposite of over or on top. You can find a toy under your bed or a ball under a table. A cat might hide under a chair when it feels shy. When you play hide-and-seek, you can look under a blanket to find your friend.
Underground\n\nUnderground is the place under the ground. It is dark and cool down there. You can find dirt, rocks, and sometimes long roots from trees. Some animals like worms and moles live underground. People dig tunnels to make trains go under cities. You might see a hole in the ground where a rabbit hides.
Underline\n\nAn underline is a line you draw under a word. It looks like a straight mark that sits right below the letters. You can make it with a pencil, a crayon, or on a computer. People use it to show that a word is important or to make it stand out. You might see an underline in a book title or when a teacher writes a new word on the board.
Understand\n\nTo understand means to know what something means. When you listen to a story, you understand the words. When you look at a picture, you understand what it shows. It feels good when you learn something new and it makes sense. You can understand a friend when they tell you how they feel.
Underwater diving\n\nUnderwater diving is when a person goes under the water. It can be done in the sea, a lake, or a big pool. A diver wears a mask to see and a tank of air to breathe. Some people dive to look at fish and pretty rocks. Others dive to fix things like boats or bridges. It is a fun way to explore a world that is not like the land.
Underwear\n\nUnderwear is a piece of clothing you wear under your other clothes. It is soft and sits right next to your skin. You put it on first thing in the morning, before your shirt and pants. It helps keep your body clean and warm. Some underwear covers your bottom, and some covers your chest too. You can find it in a drawer at home, in many colors and with fun pictures.
Unemployment\n\nUnemployment is when a grown-up wants a job but does not have one. It means they do not get money from work. Many things can cause it, like not enough jobs in a town. When many people have no job, it is hard for families to buy food and toys. Some people stop looking for work because they feel sad, and then they are not counted. A job helps people feel good and take care of their family.
Unicorn\n\nA unicorn is a make-believe animal that looks like a white horse. It has one long, pointy horn on its head. You can find it in fairy tales and storybooks from many places. The horn is said to have magic that can help sick people feel better. In old stories, only a kind girl can make it come close and fall asleep. Some flags and coats of arms show a unicorn as a special sign.
Uniform\n\nA uniform is a special set of clothes that a group of people wear to look the same. It often has a shirt and pants or a dress, all in the same color. You can see it on police officers, firefighters, and nurses when they work. It helps people know who they are and what job they do. Many children wear a uniform to school every day. It might have a school badge on the front. A uniform makes everyone feel like they are on the same team.
Union\n\nA union is a group of people who work together. They join hands to make things fair at their job. It helps them ask for better pay and safe places to work. You might hear grown-ups talk about a union at a factory or a school.
Unit\n\nA unit is a single thing. It is one part of a bigger group. You can count with it, like one apple or one block. In school, a unit can be a set of lessons about one topic. At home, a unit can be one piece of furniture, like a shelf. It helps us measure and talk about how many.
Unit of measurement\n\nA unit of measurement is a way to say how big, how heavy, or how warm something is. It gives a number a name so we all know what the number means. For example, when we say a tower is 300 meters tall, the meter is the unit. We use rulers to measure how long things are. We use scales to measure how heavy things are. A clock tells time in hours and minutes. In the kitchen, a cup helps measure flour for cookies. All over the world, people use units to share and compare sizes.
Unite\n\nUnite means to come together as one. It is when people or things join to make a group. You see it when friends hold hands to play a game. It is also when many small drops of water join to make a big puddle. When people unite, they can do big things that one person cannot do alone.
United Arab Emirates\n\nThe United Arab Emirates is a country in a hot, sandy part of the world. It has seven smaller parts called emirates. The biggest city is Dubai, where you can see a very, very tall tower called the Burj Khalifa. It has big deserts with golden sand and also blue sea beaches. People find oil and gas under the ground there. Many people from all over the world live and work in this country.
United Kingdom\n\nThe United Kingdom is a big group of countries in Europe. It is made of four parts: England, Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland. It has a king and a big city called London. People there speak English. Long ago, it had many lands far away, but not anymore. It is on an island with green hills and old castles.
United Nations\n\nThe United Nations is a big group of countries that work together. It has a big building in New York City where people from many countries meet. They talk about how to keep peace and help people all over the world. It sends helpers to places where there is fighting, to keep people safe. It also gives food and medicine to children and families who need it.
United States\n\nThe United States is a big country where many people live. It has 50 parts called states. You can find it on a map in North America, between Canada and Mexico. It has tall mountains, wide flat lands, and long rivers. The flag has red and white stripes and 50 white stars on blue. Many different people from all over the world live there and speak many languages.
United States dollar\n\nThe United States dollar is the money people use in America. It is made of paper and small round coins. You can find it in stores, banks, and your mom or dad's wallet. People use it to buy food, toys, and clothes. One dollar is the same as 100 pennies. A penny is a small brown coin. Other coins are the nickel, dime, and quarter. Paper dollars have pictures of famous people on them.
Universe\n\nThe universe is all of space and everything in it. It is very, very big and has many stars, planets, and big clouds of gas. You can see a tiny part of it when you look up at the night sky. The stars you see are far away suns. The universe started a long time ago from a tiny point and grew bigger and bigger. It is still growing today. We live on a planet called Earth, which is one small part of the universe.
University\n\nA university is a big school for grown-ups. It has many buildings with classrooms, libraries, and places to eat. After high school, people go there to learn more about one special thing, like animals, stars, or how to help sick people. A teacher called a professor helps them learn. Some students live in big houses called dorms right on the school grounds. When they finish, they get a paper that says they worked very hard.
University of Cambridge\n\nThe University of Cambridge is a very old school for grown-ups. It is in a city called Cambridge in England. It has many old buildings, big green yards, and a river where people can ride in long boats. Students go there to learn hard things like numbers, stars, and how the body works. Many smart people who changed the world studied there a long time ago.
Until\n\nUntil means up to a certain time. It tells you when something stops or changes. For example, you might play outside until the sun goes down. Then you come inside. It helps us know the end of a wait or an action.
Up\n\nUp is the way that goes toward the sky. It is the opposite of down. When you look at a bird flying high, you look up. When you jump, your feet leave the ground and you go up for a moment. A balloon filled with air can float up to the ceiling. You can point up with your finger to show where the sun is during the day.
Upper class\n\nUpper class is a group of people who have the most money in a place. They live in very big houses and have many nice things. Some of them got their money from their family, like a king or a queen. Others made their money by selling things. They can help decide what happens in a town or city.
Upset\n\nAn upset is a big, yucky feeling inside. It happens when something goes wrong, like when you drop your ice cream or a friend won't share. Your face might get hot, and you might want to cry or shout. It's okay to feel upset—everyone does sometimes. A hug or a deep breath can help it go away.
Ural (river)\n\nThe Ural is a very long river in Russia. It starts in big hills called the Ural Mountains and ends at a giant lake called the Caspian Sea. It is so long that it marks the line between two big lands, Europe and Asia. Many fish live in its water. Big boats can move on parts of it, and people in cities like Orsk see it every day.
Ural Mountains\n\nThe Ural Mountains are a long line of tall hills and rocks. They go up and down through the land in Russia. It is so long that it touches two big parts of the world: Europe and Asia. The top of the mountains is very cold and has snow. Many trees and animals live on the sides of the mountains. People can walk and climb there, but it is very big and far away for most of us.
Uranus\n\nUranus is a big, cold planet far away in the sky. It is the seventh planet from the Sun. It looks blue-green because of a gas called methane in its air. It has rings around it, but they are very dark and hard to see. It also has many moons going around it. It spins on its side, like a rolling ball, so one side stays in the dark for a very long time. You cannot see it without a big telescope, but a long time ago a man named William Herschel found it while looking at the stars.
Urban planning\n\nUrban planning is the way people decide how a city or town should look and work. It is like drawing a big map for where houses, parks, and roads will go. Planners think about where to put schools so kids can walk there. They also make sure there are trees and places to play. When you see a playground near your home, that is part of urban planning.
Urbanization\n\nUrbanization is when more and more people move from the countryside to live in big cities. It happens slowly over many years. When many people come, cities grow tall buildings, busy streets, and lots of shops. You can see it when a small town gets bigger and has more houses and parks. People move to cities to find jobs and be near schools and hospitals.
Urdu\n\nUrdu is a way people talk and write. It looks like pretty lines that go from right to left. Many people in Pakistan and some in India speak it every day. It sounds a lot like Hindi, so people who speak one can often understand the other. You might hear it in songs or stories from those places.
Urinary system\n\nThe urinary system is a set of body parts that make pee and push it out. It has two kidneys, two thin tubes, one stretchy bag, and one last tube. The kidneys sit deep inside your back and clean your blood. The thin tubes carry the yellow water down to the stretchy bag. The bag holds the pee until you feel full. Then the last tube lets the pee out when you go to the bathroom. Boys and girls have the same parts, but the last tube is a little different in boys.
Ursa Major\n\nUrsa Major is a group of stars in the night sky. It looks like a big bear with a long tail. You can see it in the sky when it is dark, if you live in the north part of the world. It helps people find the way north because part of it points to the north star. Some people call a part of it the Big Dipper, which looks like a big spoon.
Ursa Minor\n\nUrsa Minor is a group of stars in the night sky. It looks like a small spoon with a long handle. You can see it high up in the north when the sky is dark. The star at the end of the handle is the North Star. It helps people find their way at night. Long ago, people told stories about it. Some said it was a little bear with a long tail.
Uruguay\n\nUruguay is a country in South America. It is not very big, and its land is mostly flat with many farms. People there speak Spanish. The biggest city is called Montevideo. It is next to two bigger countries, Brazil and Argentina. Many people in Uruguay love to play football, and their team has won big prizes.
Uruguay River\n\nThe Uruguay River is a long, blue river in South America. It flows through three countries: Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay. It starts in Brazil and travels a very long way. People use it to move boats and carry things from place to place. Many fish live in its water. You can see it on a big map of the world.
Us\n\nUs means you and me together. It is a small word we use when we talk about two or more people as one group. When you hold hands with a friend, that is us. When a family sits at the dinner table, that is us too. It feels warm and close, like a hug.
Use\n\nUse means to take something and do something with it. You use a spoon to eat soup. You use a crayon to draw a picture. You use your legs to run and jump. When you use a toy, you play with it. People use many things every day, like a toothbrush to clean teeth or a book to read a story.
Useful\n\nUseful means something helps you do a job or makes life easier. A spoon is useful because it helps you eat soup. A coat is useful when it is cold outside. A pencil is useful for drawing and writing. Many things at home are useful, like a cup, a towel, or a light. When something is useful, you are glad to have it.
User interface\n\nA user interface is the part of a machine that lets a person tell it what to do. It has buttons, a screen, or a handle you can touch. You find it on things like a tablet, a microwave, or a toy robot. It helps you play a game, heat up food, or make a robot move. A big red button on a yellow box is a special kind of user interface. When you push it, the machine stops right away to keep people safe.
Usually\n\nUsually means something happens most of the time. It is a word we use to talk about what is normal or common. For example, you usually eat breakfast in the morning. It is not always, but almost always. When you say "I usually play outside after school," it means on most days you play outside, but maybe not every single day.
Uterus\n\nA uterus is a special place inside a woman's body where a baby grows. It is shaped like a pear and sits low in the tummy. When a woman is going to have a baby, it gets bigger and bigger for nine months. It has strong walls that help push the baby out when it is time to be born. Every month, if there is no baby, it sheds a soft lining and a little blood comes out. This is normal and happens to many women.
Utopia\n\nUtopia is a made-up place where everything is perfect. It is not real, but people like to imagine it. In a utopia, everyone is happy, kind, and safe. There are no fights, no one is sad, and all the rules are fair. Some stories in books show a utopia as a far-away island or a land in the sky. The word means "no place" because it does not really exist. People sometimes try to make a real utopia, but it is very hard to do.
Uzbekistan\n\nUzbekistan is a country far away in the middle of Asia. It has big cities, and the biggest one is called Tashkent. Many people live there, and they speak a special language. It is a dry place with no ocean near it. Long ago, people lived there even before your great-great-great-grandparents were born.
Vacation\n\nA vacation is a special time when you stop working or going to school. It is a break for fun and rest. Many families go on a trip together during a vacation. They might stay in a hotel or a small house away from home. Some people go to the beach, a big park, or a new city. Others stay home and find fun things to do nearby. You can play all day, eat new foods, and see new places. A vacation helps you feel happy and fresh when you come back.
Vaccination\n\nA vaccination is a special helper that makes your body strong against sickness. It is a tiny bit of liquid that a doctor or nurse puts into your arm with a small poke. You can get it at a doctor's office or sometimes at school. It teaches the inside of your body how to fight off bad germs before they make you sick. When many people get it, it also keeps babies and older people safe. After you get it, your arm might feel a little sore, but that goes away fast.
Vaccine\n\nA vaccine is a special medicine that helps keep you from getting sick. It is a clear liquid that a doctor or nurse puts into your arm with a tiny needle. You can get it at a doctor's office or a clinic. It teaches your body to fight off bad germs, like the ones that cause a cold or a tummy ache. For example, you might get a shot before starting school so you don't catch the measles.
Vacuum\n\nA vacuum is a space with almost no stuff in it, not even air. It is like a very empty box. Sound cannot travel through it because there are no tiny bits to carry the sound. You can find a vacuum in outer space, where there are almost no bits of air. People use vacuums in big machines to make things clean or to do science tests. A vacuum cleaner at home is not a real vacuum, but it sucks up dust and dirt from the floor.
Vacuum cleaner\n\nA vacuum cleaner is a machine that cleans floors. It has a long hose and a wide mouth that sucks up dust and dirt. You can find it in many homes, and people push it over the floor to make it clean. When it is full, you empty the dirt into the trash. It makes a loud humming sound when it is on.
Vadodara\n\nVadodara is a big city in India. It sits next to a river called Vishwamitri. In the city, you can see a huge, pretty palace named Lakshmi Vilas Palace. Many people live there, and they speak different languages. It has a big school for grown-ups, a busy train stop, and a place where airplanes land. Some famous cricket players were born in this city.
Valley\n\nA valley is a low place in the land. It sits between two higher parts, like hills or mountains. A river or a stream often runs through it, and the water makes the valley deeper over time. Many people live in valleys because there is fresh water and good dirt for growing food. You might see a valley when you drive between big hills.
Valley of the Kings\n\nThe Valley of the Kings is a special place in Egypt. It is a long, dry valley with tall rocky walls. Long ago, people dug deep rooms into the rock to bury their kings. The kings were called pharaohs, and they were put inside with gold and pretty things. Today, many people visit to see the old painted walls and learn about the kings. It is very hot there, and it almost never rains.
Value\n\nValue is how much something is worth. It can be the price you pay at the store. But it is not only about money. A hug from Mom has value even though it is free. In math, a value is a number everyone agrees on, like the number 5. Sometimes people think different things have different value. Water has more value in a hot, dry place than next to a big river. When people do not agree on value, they can get into fights.
Valve\n\nA valve is a small door inside a pipe. It opens and closes to let water or air go through or to stop it. You can find it under a sink, on a garden hose, or on a bike tire. When you turn a handle, it moves the door to let more or less flow. A faucet at home has a valve inside it.
Vampire\n\nA vampire is a made-up creature from old stories. It looks like a person but has long, sharp teeth called fangs. In stories, it comes out at night and drinks blood by biting necks. It can turn into a bat and fly away. You see vampires in movies, books, and TV shows. They are not real, but they are fun to dress up as for Halloween.
Vampire bat\n\nA vampire bat is a small flying animal that drinks blood. It has wings, tiny sharp teeth, and dark fur. It lives in warm places like Mexico and Brazil. It comes out at night to find food. It can drink blood from cows or birds without waking them up. A vampire bat lives in big groups with many friends. It can carry sickness, so people should stay away.
Van\n\nA van is a big car that carries people or things. It has a boxy shape with a flat front and a big space in the back. You can see a van on the road, like when a family goes on a trip or a worker brings tools. It is used to take many kids to school or to move boxes and big toys. Some vans have sliding doors on the side, and some have seats in the back for people to sit.
Vancouver\n\nVancouver is a big city by the sea in Canada. It has tall mountains, a big park with trees and beaches, and a long bridge. Many people live there, and they speak many different languages. In winter, you can ski on a mountain close to the city. In summer, you can play on the beach. It is a place where people from all over the world come to live.
Vanilla\n\nVanilla is a flavor that makes food taste sweet and yummy. It comes from a plant that climbs like a vine. The plant has pretty flowers, and the flavor is inside long, dark pods. People use vanilla to make ice cream, cake, and cookies taste good. Most vanilla flavor today is made in a lab, but real vanilla from the plant is very special and costs a lot of money.
Vanuatu\n\nVanuatu is a country made of many small islands in the big blue ocean. It has about 82 islands, and people live on 65 of them. The islands were made by hot rocks from under the ground called volcanoes. It is warm there, with green trees and blue water all around. Many people in Vanuatu grow food like coconuts. Visitors come to see the pretty beaches and swim in the sea.
Vapor\n\nVapor is tiny drops of water that float in the air. It looks like a white cloud or mist. You can see it when a pot of water gets hot on the stove. It rises up from the pot and disappears. It is also what makes a bathroom steamy after a warm shower. Vapor is not the same as air; it is wet and feels warm.
Variable\n\nA variable is a special box that holds something you do not know yet. It can be a number, a word, or a picture. In math, a variable is often a letter like x or y. You use it when you are trying to find a missing number. In a computer, a variable is a box that can change what is inside. People who make computer games use variables to keep score or remember a player's name. When you play a game and your score goes up, that is a variable changing.
Variable star\n\nA variable star is a star that changes how bright it looks. Sometimes it shines more, and sometimes it shines less. You can find it in the night sky, but you need a big tool to see the change. It does this because it grows bigger and smaller, or because it throws out hot stuff. One kind is a supernova, which gets very bright for a short time and then fades away.
Vase\n\nA vase is a pretty holder for flowers. It is often made of glass or clay and can be tall or round. You find it on a table or a shelf at home. People put water inside it and then place cut flowers in it to keep them fresh. A vase can be many colors, and some have painted pictures on the outside.
Vatican City\n\nVatican City is a tiny country. It is the smallest country in the whole world. It sits right inside the city of Rome, in Italy. It is so small that you can walk across it in less than an hour. The Pope lives there. He is the leader of the Catholic Church. Many people visit to see big, beautiful buildings and old art. One famous place is a huge church with a tall dome. Another is a big open square where people gather. The guards wear colorful striped uniforms. They help keep the Pope safe.
Veda\n\nVeda is a very old set of books from a country called India. It has songs, poems, and rules for how to live. People read it to learn about gods and the world. Long ago, teachers said the words out loud so children could remember them. Even today, some families sing parts of it during special days.
Vega\n\nVega is a bright star in the night sky. It looks like a tiny, shiny dot of white-blue light. You can find it high up in the sky on summer nights. It is one of the first stars you see when the sky gets dark. Long ago, people used it to help them know which way was north. It is very far away, but it shines brighter than most other stars.
Veganism\n\nVeganism is a way of living where people do not eat or use things from animals. It means a person eats only plants, like fruits, vegetables, beans, and nuts. They do not eat meat, eggs, milk, or cheese. Some also do not wear leather or wool. A vegan might choose this because they care about animals or want to help the Earth. You can find vegan food at many stores, like plant-based burgers or soy milk.
Vegetable\n\nA vegetable is a part of a plant that people eat. It can be a root, a stem, a leaf, or a flower. You find vegetables at the grocery store, in a garden, or on a farm. People cook vegetables or eat them raw in meals like soup or salad. A carrot is a vegetable that grows under the ground.
Vegetable oil\n\nVegetable oil is a slippery liquid that comes from plants. It looks yellow or clear and feels smooth. You can find it in a kitchen bottle near the stove. People use it to cook food like eggs or pancakes so the food does not stick to the pan. It also goes into cakes and cookies to make them soft. Some kinds come from sunflowers, olives, or corn. Margarine is a soft spread made from it that you can put on bread.
Vegetarianism\n\nVegetarianism is a way of eating without meat or fish. People who eat this way are called vegetarians. They eat foods like vegetables, fruit, nuts, beans, and grains. Some also eat milk and eggs. They do not eat any animal that had a face. Many people choose this way because they care about animals or want to stay healthy. You can find vegetarian food in many places, like a salad or a peanut butter sandwich.
Vehicle\n\nA vehicle is a machine that moves people and things from one place to another. It is not alive like a horse. Most vehicles have wheels that turn round and round. You see them on roads, on water, and in the sky. Cars, buses, and bikes are vehicles that go on land. Boats and ships are vehicles that go on water. Planes and hot air balloons are vehicles that fly in the air. Some vehicles use gas to go, and some use a push or the wind.
Veil\n\nA veil is a soft cloth that covers part of the face. It is light and thin, so you can sometimes see through it. Brides wear a veil on their wedding day, and it hangs down from their head. In some places, women wear a veil every day to cover their hair or face. A dancer may use a veil to move and twirl in a pretty way. When a bride lifts her veil, it shows she is now married.
Vein\n\nA vein is a tiny tube inside your body that carries blood. It looks like a thin blue or purple line under your skin. You can see it on your wrist or the back of your hand. It brings blood back to your heart after the blood has given air to your body. Inside, it has little doors that stop the blood from going the wrong way. When you get a small cut, dark red blood comes out of a vein and turns bright red in the air.
Velociraptor\n\nVelociraptor is a kind of dinosaur that lived a long, long time ago. It was about as long as a big bed and as tall as a small child. It had a long tail, sharp teeth, and a big curved claw on each foot. It also had feathers all over its body, like a bird. It could not fly, but it ran very fast on two legs. It lived in dry, sandy places with some streams. People found its bones buried in the ground in a faraway land called Mongolia.
Velocity\n\nVelocity is how fast something moves and which way it goes. It has two parts: speed and direction. If a toy car rolls east, its velocity is its speed going east. You can see velocity when you push a ball across the floor. The ball moves fast or slow in a straight line. That line shows the direction part of velocity.
Venezuela\n\nVenezuela is a country far away. It has hot beaches, tall mountains, and the world's tallest waterfall. People there speak Spanish. They grow food like cocoa and coffee. Many people work with oil that comes from under the ground. Some families have a hard time finding enough food. A long time ago, brave people fought to make it a free country.
Venice\n\nVenice is a city in Italy. It is built on many small islands in the water. The islands are separated by canals, which are like streets made of water. People use boats to move around instead of cars. The most famous boat is called a gondola. Many visitors come to see the old buildings and bridges. One famous bridge is the Rialto Bridge. Venice is a very special place with no roads for cars.
Venn diagram\n\nA Venn diagram is a picture made of circles that overlap. It helps you see how groups of things are the same or different. You can find it in school books and on classroom walls. People use it to sort things, like animals that can fly and animals that have two legs. For example, a parrot is in the part where the circles cross because it can fly and has two legs.
Venom\n\nVenom is a special kind of poison that some animals make inside their body. It can hurt other animals. An animal puts venom into another animal by biting or stinging. Some animals use it to catch food. For example, a rattlesnake bites a small animal and the venom stops it from moving. Other animals use it to stay safe. A bee stings to keep its home safe. You might see a bee in a garden. If it stings, the spot gets red and hurts a little.
Venus\n\nVenus is a planet that goes around the Sun. It is the second planet from the Sun. It looks like a very bright star in the sky. You can see it in the morning before the Sun comes up, or in the evening after the Sun goes down. It is sometimes called the morning star or the evening star. It is made of rock, like Earth. But it is much, much hotter than Earth. Thick clouds cover it all the time. These clouds trap heat, so the ground is hot enough to melt metal. It has no water and no oceans. It has many big volcanoes. It spins very slowly and has no moon.
Venus (mythology)\n\nVenus is a goddess from old Roman stories. She is the goddess of love and beauty. People long ago built temples for her and had big parties to say thank you. They thought she helped them be kind and stay away from bad things. In the stories, she was married to Vulcan, the god of fire. A famous leader named Julius Caesar said she was part of his family.
Venus de Milo\n\nVenus de Milo is a very old statue of a woman. It is made of smooth white stone. It stands tall in a big museum in Paris. The woman has no arms, but she looks calm and pretty. Long ago, people found it broken on an island. Now many people come to see it and take pictures.
Verbena\n\nVerbena is a kind of plant with small, pretty flowers. It has thin green stems and leaves that can be soft or a little rough. You can find it in gardens, parks, or sometimes growing wild by the road. People plant it to make their yard look colorful and happy. Butterflies and bees like to visit its flowers for a sweet drink. Some kinds of verbena grow low and spread out, and others grow tall. It comes in colors like purple, pink, red, and white.
Vertebrate\n\nA vertebrate is an animal that has a hard line of bones inside its back. It has a spine that helps it stand up straight and move around. You can find vertebrates in many places — in the water, on land, and in the air. Fish, birds, frogs, snakes, dogs, and people are all vertebrates. A fish uses its spine to swim fast in the sea. A bird uses its spine to fly high in the sky. You are a vertebrate too, because you have a backbone inside you.
Very\n\nVery is a word we use to say something is a lot or a big deal. It helps us tell how much we feel or see. You might say you are very happy when you get a big hug. Or you might see a very tall tree that reaches the sky. When your soup is very hot, you blow on it first. It is a small word that makes other words stronger.
Vest\n\nA vest is a piece of clothing you wear on the top part of your body. It has no sleeves, so your arms are free. You can find it in a closet or a store. People wear it over a shirt to stay warm or to look nice. Some vests have buttons or a zipper in the front. A puffy vest is good for cold days outside.
Vet\n\nA vet is a doctor for animals. She helps pets like dogs, cats, and birds when they are sick or hurt. You can find a vet at an animal hospital or a pet clinic. She looks at the animal's ears, eyes, and tummy to see what is wrong. She may give the animal a shot or some medicine to make it feel better. If your dog has a sore paw, a vet can wrap it in a soft bandage.
Veterinary medicine\n\nVeterinary medicine is the job of helping sick animals get better. It is like a doctor, but for pets, farm animals, and wild animals. A person who does this job is called a vet. The vet checks the animal's body, gives medicine, and fixes broken bones. You can find a vet at an animal hospital or a pet clinic. When your dog or cat feels bad, the vet helps it feel good again.
Victoria Falls\n\nVictoria Falls is a very big waterfall in Africa. It is on a river called the Zambezi. It is taller than a tall building and wider than many football fields. When the water falls down, it makes a loud sound and a big cloud of mist. People can see it from far away. In the dry time of year, the water can almost stop. Many people visit to see it because it is so big and pretty.
Vicua\n\nA vicua is a wild animal that looks like a small llama. It has a soft, warm coat that is light brown or reddish. Its belly and the inside of its legs are white. It has a long neck, skinny legs, and small pointy ears. It lives high up in the mountains where the grass grows. It eats tough grass with its front teeth that never stop growing. People used to hunt it for its wool, but now they try to keep it safe.
Video\n\nA video is a moving picture. It is made of many tiny pictures shown very fast, one after the other. You can see a video on a TV, a phone, or a big screen at the movies. People use a camera to make a video of a birthday party or a funny cat. A video can be short, like a song you watch, or long, like a whole movie.
Video camera\n\nA video camera is a tool that takes moving pictures. It has a lens on the front and a button to start and stop. You can find it on a phone, a tablet, or as a thing you hold in your hand. It lets you make a movie of your friends, your pets, or a fun day at the park. After you take the movie, you can watch it right away on a screen.
Video documentary\n\nA video documentary is a movie that shows real things. It tells true stories about people, animals, or places. You can watch it on a TV or a tablet. It helps you learn new facts, like how bees make honey or how big ships float. Sometimes a person talks and shows pictures to explain things. It is like a school lesson you can watch at home.
Video game\n\nA video game is a game you play on a screen. It has pictures that move and sounds you can hear. You use a controller with buttons to make things happen. You can find it on a TV, a computer, a tablet, or a phone. People play it for fun at home or on the go. Some games let you race cars, jump over gaps, or solve puzzles. A famous game is one where a plumber jumps to save a princess.
Video game console\n\nA video game console is a machine that lets you play games on a screen. It is a box that you plug into a TV. You hold a controller in your hands to move things in the game. Some consoles are small and you can carry them around. They have their own little screen. You can play racing games, jumping games, or games with funny animals. Many kids have one at home and play with friends.
Vienna\n\nVienna is a big city in a country called Austria. It has many old buildings, big parks, and a wide river called the Danube. It is the capital, so the country's leader works there. Many people live in Vienna, and they speak German. You can see big churches, a giant wheel, and horses that pull carts. Long ago, kings and queens lived there in fancy houses. Today, people go to Vienna to hear music and see pretty art.
Vietnam\n\nVietnam is a country in Southeast Asia. It is long and thin, like a noodle. It has green hills, big rivers, and a long beach next to the sea. Many people live there, and they speak a language called Vietnamese. In the north, it gets cold in winter. In the south, it is warm all year. People in Vietnam eat rice, noodles, and soup. They also have big cities with many bikes and cars. A long time ago, two brave sisters fought to keep the land safe. Today, children in Vietnam go to school and play with friends, just like you.
Vietnamese language\n\nVietnamese is a language people speak in a country called Vietnam. It sounds like singing because the voice goes up and down. Long ago, people wrote it with pictures like Chinese, but now they use letters like English. You can hear it in homes, on TV, and when friends talk to each other.
View\n\nA view is what you see when you look out a window or stand on a high hill. It can be a picture of trees, houses, or a big blue sky. You can find a view anywhere you open your eyes. People like to go to tall places to see a pretty view. A view can change when the sun goes down and the sky turns orange and pink.
Vikings\n\nVikings were people who lived long ago in the far north. They came from lands now called Norway, Sweden, and Denmark. They were very good at sailing on the sea. They used long, fast boats to travel to many places. Sometimes they fought and took things from other people. They also built new homes in lands like England and France. Many Vikings wore simple clothes and helmets without horns. They told stories about strong gods like Thor. Today, we can still see old Viking boats and tools in museums.
Village\n\nA village is a small place where people live. It is in the countryside, away from big cities. The houses in it are close together. Long ago, many people lived in villages and grew food on farms. Today, some villages have a church where people go to sing and pray. A village is smaller than a town, and it is quiet and green.
Vincent\n\nVincent is a boy's name. He is a person, like a friend or a brother. You might meet a Vincent at school or at the park. He can have any color hair and eyes. He likes to play and laugh, just like you.
Vincent Van Gogh\n\nVincent Van Gogh was a man who painted pictures. He used bright colors like yellow, blue, and green. His paintings show flowers, stars, and people. You can see his art in big buildings called museums. One famous painting is of yellow flowers in a pot. He lived a long time ago.
Vinci\n\nVinci is a name. It can be a boy's name or a girl's name. Some people have Vinci as their first name, and some have it as their last name. You might meet a friend named Vinci at school or at the park. It is a short name that is easy to say.
Vine\n\nA vine is a plant with a long, thin stem. It cannot stand up straight by itself. It grows by climbing up a wall, a fence, or a big tree. You can see it in a garden or a forest. Some vines have pretty flowers, and some grow fruit like grapes. It uses tiny curly parts to hold on tight as it climbs.
Vinegar\n\nVinegar is a sour liquid used in cooking. It is made from things like wine, apple juice, or other fruit drinks. Tiny helpers called bacteria turn the drink into vinegar. It tastes very sharp and tangy. People put a little bit of it on salad, fish, or fried potatoes to make the food taste brighter. You might see a bottle of it in the kitchen next to the oil. Some kinds are light brown, and some are dark red.
Viola\n\nA viola is a musical instrument that you play with a bow. It looks a lot like a violin, but it is a little bigger. It has four strings that you can pull a bow across to make sound. You hold it on your left shoulder and use your right hand to move the bow. The sound it makes is lower and warmer than a violin. You can find it in a group of players called an orchestra, where many instruments play together.
Violence\n\nViolence is when someone hurts another person on purpose. It can be hitting, pushing, or using mean words that make someone feel very sad. You might see it when people fight or yell in a mean way. It is not okay to be violent, and we should use kind hands and words instead. If you see violence, tell a grown-up you trust.
Violet (plant)\n\nA violet is a small plant with pretty flowers. It has soft petals that are often purple, blue, or white. You can find it growing in gardens, woods, or even in the grass. People like to plant it because the flowers look nice and smell sweet. Some violets come back every year, and some only live for one year. A famous poem says, "Roses are red, violets are blue." It is also a special flower for the month of February.
Violin\n\nA violin is a small wooden instrument that makes music. It has four long strings stretched over a hollow body. You hold it under your chin and play it with a stick called a bow. The bow has horsehair that rubs the strings to make sound. When you press the strings with your fingers, the notes change. It is often seen in big music groups called orchestras. Many children learn to play simple songs on it, like "Twinkle Twinkle Little Star."
Virtue\n\nVirtue is a way of acting that is good and kind. It is like a bright light inside a person that helps them choose to share, tell the truth, and help others. You can see it when someone waits for their turn or says sorry after a mistake. A person with virtue does things that make people feel safe and happy. It is the opposite of doing mean or hurtful things.
Virus\n\nA virus is a tiny thing that can make you sick. It is so small you cannot see it with just your eyes. It lives inside other living things, like people, animals, or plants. Once it gets inside, it makes more of itself and can cause a cold or a fever. You might have had a virus when you stayed home from school with a runny nose.
Visayas\n\nVisayas is a group of many islands in the middle of the Philippines. It has blue water all around and green hills on the land. People who live there are called Visayans. They catch fish, grow rice, and make things from coconut trees. Some islands have big cities with colorful boats called jeepneys. Many families live in houses near the beach.
Vishnu\n\nVishnu is a very important god in a religion called Hinduism. He is often shown with blue skin and four arms. In each hand, he holds a special thing: a shell, a spinning wheel, a flower, and a club. Many people pray to Vishnu at home or in a temple. They believe he keeps the world safe and comes to Earth in different forms to help when things are bad. Two of his most loved forms are Rama and Krishna.
Visible spectrum\n\nThe visible spectrum is all the colors that people can see. It is like a rainbow in the sky. You can see it when light shines through a glass piece or a soap bubble. It has red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and purple. Each color blends into the next one, so there are no sharp lines between them. A TV or a tablet makes many colors by mixing red, green, and blue light together.
Visit\n\nA visit is when you go to see someone or some place. It means you stay for a little while and then go back home. You can visit your grandma at her house. You can visit a friend to play with toys. You can visit a park to swing on the swings. A visit is a nice way to spend time with people you like.
Visitor\n\nA visitor is a person who comes to see you or a place. It can be a friend, a family member, or someone new. When a visitor comes to your house, you might say hello and show them around. Sometimes a visitor stays for a short time, like for a snack or a playdate. Other times they stay longer, like a grandma who sleeps over. A visitor can also be someone at a zoo or a museum who comes to look at things.
Visual\n\nVisual is about things you can see. It is the way we use our eyes to look at the world. When you draw a picture, you make something visual. A book with many pictures is a visual book. A movie is a visual story that moves on a screen. Your eyes help you see colors, shapes, and faces. Everything you see is part of your visual world.
Visual arts\n\nVisual arts is art that you can see with your eyes. It is a thing you look at, not a show you watch. You can find it in a museum, on a wall, or in a book. People make it by drawing, painting, or shaping clay. A drawing you make with crayons is a kind of visual art.
Visual system\n\nThe visual system is the part of your body that lets you see. It includes your eyes and the parts inside your head that help you understand what you see. Your eyes take in light, and then your brain makes a picture of the world. It helps you know if something is near or far, big or small, and what color it is. When you look at a red ball, your visual system tells you it is round and red. Some animals see colors that people cannot see, like bees that see a special light on flowers.
Vitamin\n\nA vitamin is a tiny helper that your body needs to stay strong and healthy. It comes from the food you eat, like fruits, vegetables, milk, and meat. Your body cannot make vitamins on its own, so you must get them from food every day. For example, oranges have vitamin C, which helps you not get sick. Milk has vitamin D, which makes your bones hard. If you do not get enough of a vitamin for a long time, you can feel tired or get a sickness. Some vitamins stay in your body for a while, and some leave quickly. Many people take a small vitamin pill to make sure they get enough helpers.
Voice\n\nA voice is the sound a person makes when they talk or sing. It comes from a part inside the throat that moves when air goes through it. You can hear a voice when someone says hello or sings a song. People use their voice to tell stories, ask for things, and say I love you. If a person cannot make a voice, they may use their hands or a board to share words. You hear many voices every day — your mom, your teacher, and your friends all have a voice that sounds different.
Volcano\n\nA volcano is a mountain that can get very hot inside. It has a hole at the top called a crater. Sometimes, hot melted rock called lava comes out of the crater. The lava is red and glowing and flows down the sides. When a volcano wakes up, it can throw out ash and steam. Some volcanoes sleep for a long time and do nothing. You can find volcanoes on land and under the sea. One big volcano is in Hawaii and people can visit it.
Volga\n\nThe Volga is a very long river in Russia. It is the longest river in Europe. It starts from hills near Moscow and flows a long way down to a big sea. Many smaller rivers join it along the way. In winter, much of it turns to ice for three months. People use it to move boats and carry things. At the end, it spreads out into many tiny streams where pink birds and big flowers live.
Volleyball\n\nVolleyball is a fun game played by two teams. It uses a big, light ball and a tall net in the middle. Each team has six players on the floor. They try to hit the ball over the net so the other team cannot send it back. The ball must not touch the ground on your side. Players can bump the ball with their arms, set it with their fingers, or spike it hard down. You can see it at school, on a beach, or on TV during big games like the Olympics.
Volt\n\nA volt is a way to measure how hard electricity pushes. It is like water pressure in a hose — more volts mean a stronger push. You can find volts written on batteries, like the small round ones in toys or the big ones in a flashlight. A tiny battery might have one and a half volts, while a wall plug in a house has much more. It helps make lights turn on and toys move.
Voltage\n\nVoltage is like a push that makes tiny electric bits move inside a wire. It is not something you can see, but you can feel its work when a toy lights up or a fan spins. You find it in batteries, like the ones in a remote, and in the holes on the wall at home. It helps power things like lamps, phones, and TVs. A battery has two ends, and the push between them is the voltage.
Volume\n\nVolume is how much space something takes up. It is not the same as how heavy something is. A big mountain takes up a lot of space, so it has a big volume. A small rock takes up a little space, so it has a small volume. You can see volume when you pour water into a cup. The water fills the space inside the cup. When you take a bath, your body pushes the water up because your body takes up space. That is volume too.
Vote\n\nA vote is a way for people to pick something together. It is like raising your hand to say what you want. You see a vote when a class picks a game to play. Each person gets one say, and the choice with the most hands up wins. A vote helps a group decide fairly.
Voting\n\nVoting is a way for people to pick something together. It is like raising your hand to say what you want. When a group votes, each person gets one say. Then all the says are counted. The side with the most says wins. You can see voting when your class picks a game to play. Grown-ups vote to pick a leader for a town or a whole country. Voting helps make things fair because everyone gets a turn to speak.
Vowel\n\nA vowel is a sound you make with your mouth open. It is a letter too. In English, the vowel letters are A, E, I, O, and U. You use it in every word you say. When you sing a song, you hold the vowel sounds long. The letter Y can sometimes be a vowel, like in the word 'sky'.
Wag\n\nA wag is a quick, happy shake of a tail. It looks like the tail is waving back and forth very fast. You see it when a dog is glad to see you. It shows that the dog feels friendly and excited. If you throw a ball, the dog might wag its tail even more.
Wage\n\nA wage is money you get for doing a job. It is paid by the boss to the worker. Most of the time, you get a wage for each hour you work. If you work more hours, you get more money. Some people get a wage for each thing they make or do. A wage is not the same as a salary. A salary is a set amount of money you get every week or month, no matter how many hours you work. Many countries have a rule that says the wage cannot be too low. This is called a minimum wage. It helps workers have enough money to live.
Wait\n\nWait means to stay in one place and not do anything for a little while. It is like when you stop moving and look around until something happens. You wait at the bus stop for the bus to come. You wait in line at the store to pay for your snack. When you wait, you might feel still and quiet. Sometimes waiting is hard because you want something right now. But waiting can be good, like when you wait for your birthday and then it feels extra special.
Waiter\n\nA waiter is a person who works in a restaurant. He brings food and drinks to your table. He wears a neat shirt and sometimes an apron. You can see him walking around with a big tray. He smiles and asks what you would like to eat. After you finish, he takes the empty plates away.
Waiting\n\nWaiting is when you stay in one place until something happens. It means you are not doing the thing yet, but you are ready. You might wait for your turn on the slide at the park. You might wait for cookies to cool down before you eat one. Sometimes waiting feels long, like when you wait for your birthday. Other times it is short, like waiting for a friend to say hello.
Waitress\n\nA waitress is a person who works in a restaurant. She brings food and drinks to the table. She wears a uniform and sometimes carries a tray. You can see her when you go out to eat with your family. She smiles and asks what you would like to order.
Wake\n\nWake is the time when you stop sleeping and open your eyes. It happens after a long night of rest. When you wake, you might feel happy and ready to play. The sun coming through the window can help you wake up. Mom or Dad might say "time to wake" in the morning.
Wales\n\nWales is a part of the United Kingdom, next to England. It has green hills, tall mountains, and a long coast by the sea. Many people live in the south, in big cities like Cardiff. People in Wales speak English, and some also speak Welsh, an old language. They are proud of their songs, stories, and a special flower called a daffodil. Long ago, many people worked in mines to dig coal from the ground. Today, visitors come to see the pretty parks and old castles.
Walk\n\nA walk is moving your legs to go from one place to another. It is slower than running. When you walk, one foot is always on the ground. People walk to go to the store, to the park, or just to look around. Walking is good for your body and helps you stay strong. You learned to walk when you were a very little baby.
Wall\n\nA wall is a tall flat side that stands up from the floor. It is made of hard things like brick or stone. You see walls all around you inside a house. They split a big room into smaller rooms, like your bedroom and the kitchen. A wall holds up the roof so it does not fall down. It also keeps out wind, rain, and cold. Some walls outside can hold back dirt on a hill so the ground stays flat.
Wallet\n\nA wallet is a small flat holder for money and cards. It is often made of soft leather or cloth. People keep it in a pocket or a bag. Inside, it has little slots for paper money and plastic cards. Some wallets have a small zipper part for coins. When you go to the store, a grown-up takes out a wallet to pay for things.
Walnut\n\nA walnut is a small, round nut that grows on a tall tree. It has a hard, brown shell on the outside. Inside, the nut is light brown and bumpy, and it looks a little like a brain. You can find it in stores or in some parks and yards. People crack the shell open and eat the soft part inside. It tastes a little sweet and a little oily. Some people put it in cookies, cakes, or bread. Squirrels like to hide walnuts in the ground to eat later.
Walrus\n\nA walrus is a big animal that lives in the cold sea. It has long teeth that stick out of its mouth. These teeth are called tusks. It uses its tusks to pull itself onto the ice. It also uses them to break ice and to fight. A walrus is brown, but it can turn pink when it gets warm. It has a thick layer of fat under its skin to keep it warm in icy water. It can walk on land by turning its back feet forward. You can see a walrus in a zoo or in a book about the Arctic.
Walt\n\nWalt is a name for a boy or a man. It is a short way to say Walter. You might meet a Walt at school, at the park, or in a story. He could be a dad, a grandpa, or a friend. Some Walts like to tell jokes and make people laugh.
Walt Disney\n\nWalt Disney was a man who made cartoons and movies. He drew a funny mouse named Mickey. He also built a big park called Disneyland where families can play. Many children watch his movies and love the songs and stories.
Want\n\nWant is a feeling inside you. It is when you wish for something you do not have right now. You might want a toy, a snack, or a hug from Mom. When you want something, you think about it a lot. Sometimes you say "I want that!" and point. Wanting is not the same as needing. You need food and water to live, but you want candy or a new game. It is okay to want things, but you cannot always get them right away.
War\n\nWar is a big fight between groups of people. It happens when countries or groups cannot agree and use weapons. Soldiers wear special clothes and use things like guns and tanks. War can break homes and make people sad. Many people hope for peace so that wars stop.
War elephant\n\nA war elephant is a big animal that helped people in fights long ago. It has a long nose called a trunk, big ears, and strong legs. People sat on top of it and told it where to go. It ran at the other side and scared them away. Long ago, people in India used it first. Later, people in other places used it too. But when big loud cannons came, people stopped using it in fights. After that, it helped carry heavy things.
Warehouse\n\nA warehouse is a big building where people keep many things before they go to stores. It looks like a giant box with big doors. You can find it near roads or train tracks. Workers use strong machines to lift heavy boxes and put them on tall shelves. When you order a toy online, it may come from a warehouse.
Warm\n\nWarm is a feeling that is not too hot and not too cold. It feels nice on your skin, like when you sit in the sun. You can feel warm when you wear a soft sweater or drink hot cocoa. A warm bath makes your body feel cozy. A warm hug from someone you love feels safe and happy.
Warmth\n\nWarmth is a nice feeling of being cozy and not cold. It can come from the sun on your skin or a soft blanket wrapped around you. You feel it when you sit by a fire or drink hot cocoa. It makes your body feel safe and happy. A hug from someone you love also gives you warmth.
Warsaw\n\nWarsaw is a big city in the country of Poland. It is the most important city there. It sits on both sides of a wide river called the Vistula. Many people live in Warsaw, and they work in tall buildings. One very tall building is the Palace of Culture and Science. You can go to the top and see the whole city. A long time ago, a king lived in a pretty palace there. Today, people visit that palace to see the old rooms and gardens. Warsaw also has many schools and places to watch plays.
Warship\n\nA warship is a big boat that carries weapons. It is used by the navy to protect the sea. It can be very long and made of strong metal. Some warships have a flat top where planes can land and take off. Others have big guns or rockets. You might see a warship in a movie or a picture book about the ocean.
Was\n\nWas is a word we use to talk about something that happened before now. It tells us about one person, one animal, or one thing in the past. You might say, "The dog was happy" or "The sun was bright." It helps us share stories about yesterday or long ago.
Wash\n\nWash means to clean something with water. You can wash your hands with soap to get dirt off. You can wash your clothes in a big machine. When you take a bath, you wash your whole body. It makes things smell nice and look bright.
Washing machine\n\nA washing machine is a big box that cleans dirty clothes. It has a round drum inside where you put the clothes. You find it in a laundry room or a bathroom at home. It fills with water and soap, then spins very fast to wash the dirt away. After it spins, the clothes come out clean and wet. Then you can put them in a dryer or hang them up to dry.
Washington\n\nWashington is a name for a person, a city, and a state. The city is the capital of the United States, where the president lives and works in a big white house. The state is in the far corner of the country, with tall green trees, mountains, and lots of rain. A famous person with this name was George Washington, who was the very first president. You might see the name on a map, in a book, or on a coin.
Washington, D.C.\n\nWashington, D.C. is a big, busy city where the leaders of the United States work. It has wide streets, many parks, and a long green space called the National Mall. You can see the White House, where the President lives, and a tall pointy building called the Washington Monument. People visit it to see museums with dinosaur bones and old airplanes. It is not a state, but many people live there and ride buses and trains.
Wasp\n\nA wasp is a small flying bug with a thin body. It has two wings, six legs, and a sharp point at the back that can sting. It makes a nest out of paper that looks like a gray ball. You can find a nest hanging under the roof of a house or in a tree. A wasp eats sweet juice from flowers and also catches other bugs to feed its babies. It is not fuzzy like a bee, so it looks smooth and shiny. If you leave it alone, it will not bother you.
Waste\n\nWaste is stuff that people do not want anymore. It can be old food, paper, or broken toys. You see it in a trash can at home or in a big bin outside. People put waste in a bag and take it to the street. A big truck comes to pick it up and take it away. Some waste can be used again, like glass bottles or cardboard boxes. This is called recycling. Other waste goes to a big hole in the ground called a landfill. Some waste is burned to make heat. When waste is not put in a bin, it can make the land and water dirty. So it is good to put waste in the right place.
Watch\n\nA watch is a tiny clock you can wear or carry. It shows you the time so you always know when it is morning, noon, or night. Most people wear it on their wrist with a strap. Some watches have hands that move around numbers, and some show numbers on a little screen. A watch can be a pretty thing to wear, like a bracelet. You might see one on your mom or dad’s wrist.
Water\n\nWater is a clear liquid that falls as rain and fills oceans, lakes, and rivers. It has no color, no taste, and no smell. You can find it in your sink, in a puddle, or in a big blue sea. All living things need it to stay alive. People drink it, wash with it, and use it to grow food. When it gets very cold, it turns into hard ice. When it gets very hot, it turns into steam that goes up into the air.
Water buffalo\n\nA water buffalo is a big animal that likes to live near water. It has a dark gray or black body, four strong legs, and two long horns that curve back. You can find it on farms in warm places like Asia. People keep it for its rich milk, which is used to make soft white cheese. It also helps farmers by pulling heavy things and plowing fields. A baby water buffalo stays with its mom and a big group of other moms for three years. Then the young boys go off to live in a small group with other boys. Some water buffalo live in the wild, but there are very few left, so people keep them safe in special parks.
Water cycle\n\nThe water cycle is the way water moves around our Earth. It goes up into the sky and comes back down again. The sun warms up water in the ocean, and the water turns into tiny drops that float up to make clouds. When the clouds get heavy, the water falls back down as rain or snow. Then the water flows into rivers and lakes, and some of it goes back into the ocean. The water cycle never stops, and it gives us the water we need to drink and grow food.
Water pollution\n\nWater pollution is when water gets dirty and unsafe. It happens in lakes, rivers, and the big sea. Dirty things from houses and factories flow into the water. This makes the water look green or brown instead of clear blue. It hurts the fish and plants that live in the water. When people or animals drink the dirty water, they can get sick. Farmers use food for plants that can wash into rivers and make the water dirty too.
Water purification\n\nWater purification is a way to make water clean and safe. It takes out the bad stuff you cannot see, like tiny germs and dirt. People do this so the water is good to drink and does not make you sick. You can find clean water from a tap at home or in a water bottle from the store. Some people use a special pitcher with a filter to clean the water. Clean water is also used in big machines to wash things. When water is not clean, it can hurt pipes and sinks. Many people around the world need clean water to stay healthy.
Water tower\n\nA water tower is a tall building that holds water. It looks like a big tank on top of long legs. You can see it in a town or near a school. It sends water down through pipes to homes and stores. Even when the lights go out, it can still push water out because it uses gravity. It is like a giant cup that shares water with everyone.
Water vapor\n\nWater vapor is water that has turned into a gas you cannot see. It is all around us in the air, but it is invisible. When water gets very hot, it changes into this gas and floats up. You can see it when you breathe out on a cold day and a little cloud forms—that is water vapor turning back into tiny water drops. It helps make clouds and rain, and it is an important part of how water moves around the Earth.
Water viper\n\nA water viper is a kind of snake that lives near water. It has a thick body and a wide, flat head. When it opens its mouth, the inside is white like cotton. It lives in warm, wet places like swamps, lakes, and rivers. It eats small animals like frogs, fish, and birds. Its bite can hurt people very much, so it is best to stay far away if you see one.
Watercolour\n\nWatercolour is a way to paint with colours that mix with water. It uses a brush and special paints that come in a small box. You dip the brush in water, then rub it on the paint, and then you can make marks on paper. When the water dries, the colour stays on the paper. Many children use watercolour at school to make pictures of flowers, houses, or the sky.
Waterfall\n\nA waterfall is water that falls down a big rock step. It starts high up and drops straight down to a pool below. You can find it in rivers where the ground drops suddenly. The water makes a loud, roaring sound when it hits the bottom. Many people visit waterfalls to see the pretty water and feel the cool spray. Angel Falls is a very tall waterfall far away.
Watermelon\n\nA watermelon is a big, round fruit that grows on a vine. It has a thick green skin on the outside. Inside, it is juicy and sweet, and it can be red, pink, or yellow. You can eat the soft part, but not the hard green skin. It has small black or brown seeds, but some kinds have no seeds at all. People love to eat it on a hot summer day because it is cool and full of water.
Watermill\n\nA watermill is a machine that uses moving water to do work. It has a big round wheel with flat blades on it. You can find it next to a river or a stream. The water pushes the wheel and makes it spin. The spinning wheel turns heavy stones inside the mill. These stones grind grain into flour for bread. Long ago, people used watermills to make flour and to shape metal.
Wave\n\nA wave is a wiggling movement that travels from one place to another. It carries energy, like a push or a pull, without moving the stuff around it very far. You can see waves on top of water when you throw a stone into a pond. It moves up and down and spreads out in circles. Sound is also a wave that moves through the air to your ears. Light from the sun is another kind of wave that travels all the way to Earth.
Wavelength\n\nWavelength is how long a wave is from one bump to the next bump. It is the space between two high points of a wave. You can see waves in water when you drop a rock in a pond. The circles that move out are waves, and the space from one circle to the next is the wavelength. Light and sound also have waves, but you cannot see them. A short wavelength means the bumps are close together. A long wavelength means the bumps are far apart.
Wavy\n\nWavy means something has a shape like small hills and valleys. It is not straight or flat. You can see wavy lines on the ocean when the water moves up and down. Hair can be wavy too, with soft bends instead of tight curls. A flag blows in the wind and makes a wavy shape.
Way\n\nA way is a path or a road that takes you from one place to another. It can be made of dirt, stones, or hard black ground. You walk on a way to go to school, the park, or a friend's house. A way can be short or long, straight or curvy. Sometimes a way goes through a forest or over a hill. When you follow a way, it shows you where to go.
We\n\nWe is a word that means you and me together. It is a small word we use when we talk about a group that has the speaker in it. When you say "we are playing," it means you and your friend are playing. When a family says "we eat dinner," it means all the people in the family eat together. We can be two people or many people. It helps us share what we do as a team.
Weak\n\nWeak means not strong. It is when a person or thing has little power. You might feel weak when you are sick and cannot run fast. A weak branch on a tree can break easily. A weak light is not very bright, so you cannot see well. When you are weak, you need rest to feel strong again.
Weak Interaction\n\nA weak interaction is a tiny push or pull that happens inside very small things, like the bits that make up everything. It is one of the ways these tiny bits talk to each other. You cannot see it with your eyes, but it helps the sun shine and makes some things break apart slowly. Scientists study it with big tools to learn how the world works.
Wealth\n\nWealth is having many things that people want. It can be money, a big house, or land with animals. For one person, it means all the nice things they own. For a whole country, it means the land, the buildings, and the things people make together. Long ago, the word meant feeling happy and well. Today, it still can mean a good life, not just coins.
Weapon\n\nA weapon is a thing people use to hurt others or animals. It can be small like a knife or big like a cannon. Long ago, people made weapons from stone and wood. Today, soldiers use guns that shoot fast. Police carry weapons to keep people safe. Some weapons are hidden, like a bomb in the ground. You might see a toy weapon in a game, but real ones are dangerous.
Wear\n\nWear means to have clothes or things on your body. You wear a shirt on your top and pants on your legs. You also wear shoes on your feet and a hat on your head. When it is cold, you wear a warm coat. When it is sunny, you wear sunglasses to keep the sun out of your eyes. Every day, you pick what to wear.
Weasel\n\nA weasel is a small, furry animal with a long, thin body and short legs. It has a red or brown back and a white belly. Its tail is short and thin. It lives in many places around the world, like woods and fields. It hunts small animals like rabbits by going into their holes. It is quick and good at catching food.
Weather\n\nWeather is what the air outside feels like. It can be sunny, rainy, windy, or snowy. Sometimes it is hot, and sometimes it is cold. It changes from day to day, and even from morning to night. You can see it when you look out the window. People wear a coat when it is cold and shorts when it is hot. Rain helps flowers grow, and wind makes leaves dance. A storm can bring loud thunder and bright lightning.
Weather front\n\nA weather front is a line where two big blocks of air meet. One block is warm, and the other is cold. It can make clouds, rain, or wind. When a cold block pushes a warm block, it can bring big storms. When a warm block slides over a cold block, it can bring soft rain and fog. After it moves away, the sky often turns clear and blue.
Weathering\n\nWeathering is when big rocks break into smaller pieces. It happens when wind, rain, or ice touch the rock over a long time. You can see it on old stone walls or on mountains where the rock looks cracked and bumpy. Rain can make the rock soft and crumble. Wind can blow tiny bits of sand that scratch the rock. When water gets into a crack and freezes, the ice pushes the crack open wider. Weathering helps make the soil where plants grow.
Weaving\n\nWeaving is a way to make cloth. It uses two sets of long, thin strings called threads. One set goes up and down, and the other set goes side to side. The threads cross each other to make a flat piece of cloth. People use a big tool called a loom to hold the threads tight. You can see weaving in things like a towel, a blanket, or the shirt you wear.
Web browser\n\nA web browser is a tool on a computer or phone that lets you look at websites. It has a long white box at the top where you type the name of a place you want to see. When you press go, it shows you words, pictures, and videos from that place. You can use it to watch cartoons, play simple games, or read stories. Some browsers are made to keep your secrets safe, and some are made to be very fast. You might see a browser on a tablet at home or at school.
Web design\n\nWeb design is making how a website looks and feels. It is like drawing a picture of a page on the computer. A web designer picks the colors, the words, and where the buttons go. They make sure it is easy to use and nice to see. You can see web design when you visit a fun game site or a story site. It helps you find what you want without getting lost.
Website\n\nA website is a place on the computer where you can see pages with words and pictures. It lives on a big computer called a server, far away. You visit it by typing its name in a box at the top of your screen. Some websites let you play games, watch videos, or learn new things. A website can have many pages, and you click on words or pictures to move from one page to another. The first page you see is called the home page. It is like the front door of the website.
Wedding\n\nA wedding is a happy day when two people promise to love each other forever. It has a special party where they say their promises out loud. They often give each other a ring to wear on the finger. Many weddings happen in a church or a big hall with flowers and music. After the promises, there is a big meal with cake and dancing. The two people wear nice clothes, and the bride may wear a long white dress. Friends and family come to cheer and give hugs. Then they go on a fun trip called a honeymoon.
Wedge\n\nA wedge is a simple tool shaped like a triangle. It has one thin edge and one thick edge. You can find it in a toolbox or a kitchen drawer. People use it to split things apart, like cutting a log with an axe or slicing cheese with a knife. A doorstop is a wedge that keeps a door open.
Wednesday\n\nWednesday is a day of the week. It comes after Tuesday and before Thursday. It is the middle day of the week. Many people go to school or work on this day. Some kids have a special class like music or art on Wednesday. It is a good day to play with friends after school.
Weed\n\nA weed is a small plant that grows where people do not want it. It pops up in gardens, on lawns, and between sidewalk cracks. It has green leaves and sometimes tiny flowers. A weed takes water and sun from the plants people like. Gardeners pull it out by hand or use a tool to dig it up. A dandelion is a weed many children know because its yellow flower turns into a fluffy white ball.
Week\n\nA week is a group of seven days. It goes in a circle: after Sunday, a new week starts again. People use the week to know when to go to school or work. Most grown-ups work for five days and then rest for two days. Those two rest days are called the weekend. A year has about 52 weeks. You can see the days of the week on a calendar at home or in your classroom.
Weekend\n\nA weekend is the two days at the end of the week when many people do not go to work or school. It is Saturday and Sunday. On the weekend, families can sleep late, play outside, or go to the park. Some people watch movies or eat a big breakfast together. It is a happy time to rest and have fun before the new week starts.
Weevil\n\nA weevil is a tiny bug. It has a long nose that sticks out in front. You can find it on plants, in gardens, or sometimes in food like rice or cereal. It eats leaves, seeds, and grains. Some weevils can hurt crops that farmers grow. It is very small, so you might need a looking glass to see its long nose.
Weighing scale\n\nA weighing scale is a tool that tells how heavy something is. It has a flat top where you put the thing you want to weigh. Some scales have a little window with numbers that show the weight. You find scales in a bathroom to check your body weight. You also see them at a grocery store to weigh fruits and vegetables. A kitchen scale helps Mom or Dad measure flour and sugar when they bake a cake.
Weight\n\nWeight is how heavy something feels when you pick it up. It is the pull that the ground has on a thing. On Earth, a big rock has more weight than a small pebble. You can check weight with a scale at home or at the doctor’s office. A scale shows a number that tells you how heavy you are. If you go to the Moon, your weight would be much less because the Moon pulls less than Earth.
Weight loss\n\nWeight loss means your body gets lighter than before. It happens when you move your body a lot, like running or swimming. It also happens when you eat more good foods, like vegetables and fruits, and less sweet foods. Some people lose weight without trying when they feel sad or sick. Getting good sleep at night helps your body stay at a happy weight.
Welcome\n\nWelcome is a warm word you say when someone comes to you. It means you are happy to see them. You can say it when a friend comes to your house or when a new child joins your class. You can also wave your hand or give a big smile to show welcome. It makes people feel safe and loved.
Welfare\n\nWelfare is help that people get when they need it. It can be money, food, or a place to stay. Some people get welfare when they are sick or cannot work. It helps them buy food and clothes. Many countries have welfare to make sure everyone is okay.
Welfare Spending\n\nWelfare spending is money the government uses to help people. It goes to people who are sick, old, or do not have a job. This money can pay for food, a home, or a doctor visit. It helps make sure everyone has what they need to live.
Well\n\nA well is a deep hole in the ground that gives us water. It goes down, down, down until it reaches water hiding under the dirt and rocks. People use a bucket on a rope to pull the water up. Some wells have a pump that pushes the water out. Many towns get their water from big wells. It is important to keep the ground near a well clean so the water stays safe to drink.
Were\n\nWere is a word we use to talk about the past. It tells us that something happened before now. We say "they were" or "you were" when we talk about more than one person or thing. For example, "The kids were happy at the park." It helps us tell stories about yesterday or long ago.
Werewolf\n\nA werewolf is a made-up creature that is part human and part wolf. It looks like a normal person most of the time, but when the moon is big and round, it changes into a big, hairy wolf. It has sharp teeth, pointy ears, and a long tail. You find werewolves in stories, movies, and books. They are often scary and chase people in the dark. In some tales, a werewolf can be hurt by a shiny silver bullet. When it dies, it turns back into a person.
West\n\nWest is a direction. It is the way the sun goes down at the end of the day. If you face the sunset, you are looking west. On a map, west is on the left side. Many people travel west to see the ocean or big mountains.
West Africa\n\nWest Africa is a big part of the world. It is on the west side of a very big land called Africa. Many countries are there, like Ghana and Nigeria. It has hot weather and big rivers. People there grow food like yams and rice. Some places have busy markets with colorful cloth.
West Bengal\n\nWest Bengal is a big piece of land in the east of India. It has tall mountains in the north and a big sea called the Bay of Bengal in the south. Many people live there, and its main city is Kolkata. A long river named the Ganges flows through it and splits into smaller rivers. People grow rice and tea in West Bengal. It is also home to the Sundarbans, a big forest with trees that grow in water and many tigers.
West Lake\n\nWest Lake is a big, pretty lake in a city called Hangzhou. It has calm, blue water with green hills all around. You can see old temples and gardens near the water. People like to walk by the lake or ride on small boats. Many families visit to look at the flowers and trees. It is a quiet place to rest and play.
Western\n\nWestern is a kind of movie or story. It shows cowboys, horses, and big open lands with sand and cactuses. You can see it on TV or in a book. In a Western, people ride horses fast and wear big hats. They help keep a town safe. A child might see a Western when a grown-up watches an old movie with horses and dusty streets.
Western (genre)\n\nA Western is a kind of story. It is often a movie or a TV show. It shows cowboys and horses a long time ago. Cowboys wear big hats and boots. They ride horses and live in a dry, dusty place. Sometimes they help a town, and sometimes they chase bad people. You might see a cowboy hat in a toy store or a picture book.
Western Europe\n\nWestern Europe is a big part of the world. It is a group of countries that sit on the left side of a map of Europe. Some of these countries touch the ocean with long, bumpy edges. People in these countries often share ways of living, like what they eat and how they say hello. Many of them work together to make rules and trade things like toys and food. A country in Western Europe you might know is Spain, where people enjoy sunny beaches.
Western Philosophy\n\nWestern philosophy is a way of thinking about big questions. It asks things like: What is real? How should we be good? What can we know? It started long ago in a place called Greece. People who do this thinking are called philosophers. They talk and write about ideas. You can find their ideas in books and in talks. One example is asking if a chair is still a chair when no one looks at it.
Western Sahara\n\nWestern Sahara is a big piece of land in Africa. It is mostly hot, dry desert with flat sand and rocks. It sits next to the big blue ocean on one side. Not many people live there because it is so dry. The biggest town is called Layoune, and many of the people stay there. Some people say it belongs to one country, and others say it belongs to a different group. This has caused a long fight, but now there is no war. Many families from there live in tents in a nearby country.
Western United States\n\nThe Western United States is a big part of the country. It is the side where the sun goes down. It has tall, rocky mountains with snow on top. There are also hot, dry deserts with sand and cactus. Next to the big blue ocean, you can find long, sandy beaches. Many people live in big cities there, and some live on farms with cows and horses. A long time ago, people rode horses and wore big hats in that place. Today, you can still see cowboys and pretty sunsets.
Wet\n\nWet means something has water on it or in it. When you jump in a puddle, your shoes get wet. A towel feels wet after you dry your hands. Rain makes the ground wet. If you paint with watercolors, the paper gets wet. Wet things feel cool and slippery. When the sun shines, wet things dry up and the water goes away.
Wetland\n\nA wetland is a place where land and water meet. It has wet, muddy ground and may have shallow pools. You can find it near rivers, lakes, or by the sea. Many animals live there, like frogs, ducks, and bugs. It helps clean the water and gives animals a safe home. Some wetlands are big and grassy, and you might see tall reeds growing there.
Whale\n\nA whale is a very big animal that lives in the ocean. It is not a fish, even though it swims in water. It breathes air from a hole on top of its head. When it comes up, it blows water and air high into the sky. A whale can be as long as a school bus. Some whales have no teeth. They have long, thin strips in their mouth to catch tiny food from the water. Other whales have sharp teeth to eat fish. A baby whale is called a calf. It drinks milk from its mom. Whales can talk to each other with loud sounds under the water. Sometimes a whale jumps out of the water and makes a big splash. You can see whales in the big, blue sea.
Whale shark\n\nA whale shark is the biggest fish in the sea. It has a wide, flat head and a very big mouth. Its body is gray or blue with white spots and stripes. It lives in warm oceans all around the world. It swims slowly and eats tiny sea animals like krill and plankton. Even though it is huge, it is gentle and shy. People sometimes see it near the top of the water. It can live for a very long time, up to 100 years.
What\n\nWhat is a word we use to ask a question. It helps us find out about things we do not know. You can say it when you see something new and want to learn its name. You can also use it when you hear a sound and want to know where it comes from. For example, if you point at a bug and say "What is that?" a grown-up can tell you.
Wheat\n\nWheat is a plant that gives us food. It looks like tall green grass with thin leaves and a top full of small seeds. Farmers grow it in big fields all over the world. People pick the seeds and grind them into flour. The flour is used to make bread, pasta, and cookies. Many children eat wheat every day in their breakfast cereal or sandwich.
Wheel\n\nA wheel is a round thing that spins. It is shaped like a circle. You see wheels on cars, buses, bikes, and toy cars. When a wheel turns, it helps things move easily on the ground. A big truck has many wheels, and a small skateboard has four tiny ones. Without wheels, we would have to carry everything.
Wheelbarrow\n\nA wheelbarrow is a small cart with one wheel. It has a big open box on top and two long handles at the back. You find it in gardens or on farms. People use it to carry heavy things like dirt, rocks, or plants. You push it by lifting the handles and walking forward. It helps move stuff that is too heavy to carry with your hands.
Wheelchair\n\nA wheelchair is a special chair with wheels. It helps people who cannot walk or find walking very hard. Some wheelchairs are pushed by the person sitting in it, using their hands on the big wheels. Others have a motor that moves it by itself. You might see a wheelchair at a store, a park, or a doctor's office. A person who uses it can go places and do things just like everyone else.
When\n\nWhen is a word we use to ask about time. It helps us find out the moment something happens. You might say "When is lunch?" because you want to know the time to eat. Or you ask "When do we go to the park?" to learn the day or hour. It is a small word that starts many questions about past, now, and later.
Where\n\nWhere is a word we use to ask about a place. It helps us find out where something or someone is. You might say "Where is my toy?" when you cannot see it. A grown-up might ask "Where are we going?" before a trip. It is a small word that starts many questions every day.
Which\n\nWhich is a word we use when we want to pick one thing from a few. It helps us ask about choices. You might say, "Which toy do you want?" when you see a red car and a blue truck. It is a small word that starts a question. We use it every day to find out what someone likes best.
While\n\nWhile is a word that means "during the time that." It joins two things that happen at the same time. You might say, "I sing while I wash my hands." It helps you tell a story with two parts that go together.
Whip\n\nA whip is a long, thin tool. It has a handle at one end and a long, bendy part at the other. You might see it in old stories about cowboys or in a circus. A person swings it fast and it makes a loud crack sound. People used it long ago to guide horses or other animals. Today, some people use it in shows to do tricks.
Whirlpool galaxy\n\nThe Whirlpool galaxy is a big family of stars far, far away in space. It looks like a bright pinwheel with long, curvy arms that spin around a bright center. You can see it in the night sky if you use a special tool called a telescope. It has a smaller friend galaxy next to it, and they pull on each other like two dancers holding hands. Many people who love stars like to look at it because the shape is so pretty.
Whisker\n\nA whisker is a long, stiff hair near an animal's mouth. It is thicker than other hair and sticks out from the face. Cats and mice have whiskers on their cheeks, above their eyes, and sometimes on their legs. It helps the animal feel things around it, even in the dark. You should never cut a whisker because it can make the animal feel lost. Some people also call a beard or mustache a whisker.
Whisper\n\nA whisper is a very soft way of talking. It sounds like a tiny puff of air with words inside. You use it when you want to tell a secret or when you are in a quiet place like a library. To whisper, you make your voice so small that only someone very close can hear it. It feels like a tickle in your ear.
Whistle\n\nA whistle is a small tool that makes a high, loud sound. It is often made of metal or plastic and has a tiny hole for air. You put it to your lips and blow, and it makes a sharp noise. People use it to get attention, like a coach at a game or a lifeguard at the pool. Some whistles are on a string so you can wear them around your neck.
White\n\nWhite is the brightest color we can see. It is the color of fresh snow on a cold day. You can make white light by mixing red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and purple light together. Many things are white, like clouds, milk, and paper. Doctors and nurses wear white coats to look clean. A white flag means peace. White is a happy color that feels new and fresh.
White blood cell\n\nA white blood cell is a tiny helper inside your body. It is round and very small, so you need a special tool to see it. It lives in your blood and moves all around your body. Its job is to fight germs and keep you from getting sick. When you have a cut, it rushes there to clean up and help you heal. Sometimes it makes a little yellow goo called pus while it works.
White dwarf\n\nA white dwarf is a very old, small star. It is what is left after a star like our Sun runs out of fuel and shrinks. It is very tiny, about as big as Earth, but it has as much stuff inside as the whole Sun. It shines with a white or blue light at first, but over a very, very long time it cools down and stops glowing. You cannot see one with just your eyes, but big telescopes can find them in the night sky.
White Sea\n\nThe White Sea is a big body of water in the north of Russia. It is part of a bigger sea, but land wraps around it on three sides. In winter, the top of it freezes into ice, so strong boats called icebreakers help other boats move. Many rivers flow into it, and people catch fish like salmon and cod there. Big boats carry things from its ports to other places.
Whiteboard\n\nA whiteboard is a big, flat board that is shiny and white. It hangs on a wall in a classroom or an office. People write on it with special markers that wipe off easily. A teacher uses it to draw letters and numbers so the class can see. You can clean it with a soft cloth, and then it is blank again.
Whitefly\n\nA whitefly is a tiny bug with soft white wings. It is so small you may need a big glass to see it well. It lives on the bottom side of plant leaves in gardens and farms. It drinks the sweet juice from the leaves, which can make the plant sick. If you shake a plant and see a little white cloud fly up, that might be a whitefly.
Who\n\nA who is a word we use to ask about a person. It helps us find out someone's name or who did something. You hear it in questions like "Who is that?" or "Who ate the cookie?" When you play a guessing game, you might ask "Who is hiding behind the door?" It is a small word that starts many fun talks.
Whole\n\nWhole means all of something, with no parts missing. When you eat a whole cookie, you eat every last crumb. A whole apple is one apple that is not cut into pieces. You can have a whole toy, a whole book, or a whole day to play. It is the opposite of a part or a piece.
Whoosh\n\nA whoosh is a soft, fast sound. It is like the noise when something moves quickly through the air. You might hear it when a car zooms past on the street. A bird flying close by can make a whoosh with its wings. Even a broom sweeping the floor can make a little whoosh.
Whose\n\nWhose is a question word. It asks who something belongs to. When you see a toy on the floor, you can ask, "Whose toy is this?" It helps you find the owner. If you find a lost mitten, you might say, "Whose mitten is this?" Then someone can say, "It is mine!"
Why\n\nWhy is a word we use to ask for a reason. It helps us learn about the world. When you ask why, you want to know what made something happen. For example, you might ask why the sky is blue or why a ball bounces. Grown-ups and teachers love when you ask why because it shows you are thinking.
Wi-Fi\n\nWi-Fi is a way to connect to the internet without wires. It uses invisible waves that travel through the air. You can find it in many homes, schools, and stores. It lets you watch videos, play games, and talk to friends on a tablet or phone. When you see a little fan shape on a screen, that means Wi-Fi is there.
Wide\n\nWide means something is big from one side to the other side. It is the opposite of narrow. A wide road has lots of space for cars. A wide smile shows many teeth. A wide river is hard to cross. When you stretch your arms out, that is how wide you are.
Width\n\nWidth is how wide something is. It tells you how far it is from one side to the other side. You can measure width with a ruler. A big truck has more width than a small car. A door has width so people can walk through. When you stretch your arms out wide, that shows width.
Wife\n\nA wife is a woman who is married. She and her husband promise to be a family. She may wear a pretty ring on her finger. A wife and her husband live together and help each other. They share a home and often have children. A wife can be a mom, a worker, or a friend. She is part of a family.
Wig\n\nA wig is a pretend head of hair that a person can put on. It looks like real hair, but it is made by people. You can find it in a store or a costume box. Some people wear it when they have no hair on their head. Actors put it on to look like a different person for a show. Sometimes a judge in a big court wears a white wig as part of the job.
Wiggle\n\nWiggle means to move your body or a part of your body back and forth with small, quick shakes. It looks like a little dance or a jiggle. You can wiggle your fingers, your toes, or your whole body. When you wiggle, you do not stay still—you move side to side or up and down. A worm wiggles on the ground when it moves. You might wiggle in your chair when you feel happy or excited.
Wild\n\nWild means something is not tame. It lives or grows on its own, without people taking care of it. A wild animal finds its own food and makes its own home. You might see a wild rabbit in a field or a wild flower by the road. It is free and does not need a person to help it.
Wild boar\n\nA wild boar is a big, strong animal that looks like a pig. It has a large head, short legs, and a body covered with rough hair. Its eyes sit high on its head, and its ears are small. It lives in forests and fields in many parts of the world. It uses its strong nose to dig in the dirt for food like roots, worms, and bugs. A mother wild boar has four to six babies at a time. The babies are tiny when they are born and drink milk from their mom. Long ago, people used its hair to make soft brushes. In old stories, it was seen as a brave and powerful animal.
Wildebeest\n\nA wildebeest is a big animal that looks a little like a cow. It has four long legs, a large head with two curved horns, and a long tail. It lives in Africa on wide, flat lands with grass and trees. It eats grass and walks very far with a big group to find fresh food. A wildebeest is food for lions and other big hunters.
Wildfire\n\nA wildfire is a big fire that burns in the woods or grass. It moves fast and can burn many trees and homes. You might see it on the news when a forest is on fire. Firefighters use water and tools to stop it. Sometimes people start a wildfire by mistake, like when a campfire is not put out. Some plants need a small fire to grow new seeds, but a big wildfire can hurt animals and people.
Wildlife conservation\n\nWildlife conservation means taking care of wild animals and the places they live. It helps keep animals safe so they do not go away forever. People do this by protecting forests, rivers, and oceans. They also make rules to stop hunting and keep the land clean. When we save a home for a bear or a bird, we help many other living things too.
Will\n\nWill is a name for a boy. He is a person, just like you. You might meet a Will at school or at the park. He can be a friend who likes to play games and share toys. Sometimes Will is short for William.
William\n\nWilliam is a name for a boy. It is a very old name that many people have used for a long time. You might meet a boy named William at school or at the park. Sometimes people call him Will or Billy for short. A famous William from stories is a prince who becomes a king.
William Shakespeare\n\nWilliam Shakespeare was a man who wrote many stories and poems. He lived a long time ago in a country called England. His stories are called plays, and people act them out on a big stage. You might see a play about a king, a fairy, or two young people in love. Some of his most loved stories are about a boy named Hamlet and a girl named Juliet. Even today, children and grown-ups all over the world enjoy his words.
Willow\n\nA willow is a kind of tree or bush. It has long, thin branches that hang down like green hair. You can often find it near water, like a pond or a river. The wood is soft and bends without breaking. People use the bendy branches to make baskets. In spring, it grows fuzzy little buds that look like soft caterpillars.
Win\n\nA win is when you do better than others in a game or a race. It means you are first or you get the most points. When you win, you might get a gold star, a ribbon, or a big smile from your friends. It feels good inside, like a happy jump in your tummy. You can win at tag, at a puzzle, or at a drawing contest. Even if you do not win, trying your best is still a win in your heart.
Wind\n\nWind is moving air that you can feel but not see. It can be soft like a whisper or strong like a big push. You find it outside on a windy day when leaves dance and flags wave. It helps kites fly high in the sky and makes windmills spin to make power. Sometimes it blows your hair or makes a howling sound around the house.
Wind instrument\n\nA wind instrument is a toy that makes music when you blow air into it. It is a long or round tube with holes or buttons. You can find it in a band or at a music class. When you blow into it, the air shakes inside and makes a pretty sound. A flute is one kind of wind instrument. You hold it to the side and blow across a little hole.
Wind power\n\nWind power is a way to make electricity using the wind. It uses big fans called wind turbines. The wind pushes the blades and makes them spin around. When the blades spin, a machine inside makes electricity. This electricity can light up houses and turn on TVs. Wind power is clean because it does not make dirty smoke. You can see wind turbines in open fields or on hills where the wind blows a lot.
Wind turbine\n\nA wind turbine is a tall machine that makes power from the wind. It has long arms called blades that spin around and around. You can see it in big open fields or on hills where the wind blows a lot. When the blades spin, it makes electricity that can light up homes and schools. It is like a giant fan that works backward—instead of using power to make wind, it uses wind to make power.
Windmill\n\nA windmill is a tall building with big spinning arms. It has long blades that turn around when the wind blows. You can see it in open fields where the wind is strong. Long ago, people used it to crush grain into flour for bread. Today, some windmills make power for lights and TVs. The spinning arms move a stone inside that grinds the grain. It looks like a giant fan standing in the grass.
Window\n\nA window is a hole in a wall that lets in light and air. It has a clear part made of glass so you can see through it. You find windows in houses, schools, and cars. People open a window to let fresh air come inside. Some windows are big, some are small, and some have pretty colors like in a church.
Windy\n\nWindy means the air outside is moving fast. You can feel it push against your face and see it shake the leaves on trees. On a windy day, you might fly a kite high in the sky. It can make a soft whoosh sound as it goes past your ears. Sometimes it blows hats off heads and makes flags flap.
Wine\n\nWine is a drink made from grapes. It is red, white, or pink in color. People drink it from a glass at dinner or a party. It is made by squishing grapes and waiting for them to change. Only grown-ups can have it because it has a special thing called alcohol. You might see a bottle of it at a family meal.
Wing\n\nA wing is a body part that helps an animal fly. It is flat and wide, and it moves up and down to push against the air. Birds have wings with soft feathers on them. Bats have wings made of thin skin stretched over long finger bones. Bugs like bees and butterflies also have wings, but they look different from bird wings. You can see wings on a bird outside your window or on a butterfly in a garden.
Winner\n\nA winner is a person or a team that comes first in a game or a race. They get a prize, like a shiny cup or a gold star. You can see a winner at a sports day, a school contest, or a fun race with friends. When someone wins, people clap and cheer for them. They feel very happy and proud. Sometimes a winner shares their prize with others.
Winter\n\nWinter is the coldest time of the year. It comes after fall and before spring. The days are short, and the nights are long. In many places, it gets very cold, and white snow falls from the sky. People wear warm coats, hats, and gloves to stay cozy. Some animals, like bears, sleep all winter in a deep rest. Trees lose their leaves and look bare. Winter has fun holidays like Christmas and New Year's Day. You might see your breath like a little cloud when you go outside.
Winter Olympic Games\n\nThe Winter Olympic Games are big sports games that happen every four years. They take place in a cold, snowy place. People from many countries come to play sports on ice and snow. They ski down big hills, skate fast on ice, and slide on sleds. You can watch it on TV and see the colorful flags from all over the world.
Wipe\n\nA wipe is a soft cloth or paper that you use to clean something. It is often wet with a little soap or water. You can find wipes in a kitchen, a bathroom, or a baby's room. People use it to clean hands, faces, or dirty tables. After you eat a messy snack, a wipe helps make your hands clean again.
Wire\n\nA wire is a long, thin piece of metal that can bend. It is like a string made of metal. You can find it inside the walls of your house, behind the TV, or in a phone charger. It carries power from the wall to make lights turn on and toys move. The outside of a wire has a colored cover to keep people safe. Copper wire is a common kind, and it looks shiny and orange.
Wisdom\n\nWisdom is knowing what is right and good. It is not just knowing many facts. It is using your heart and your mind together to make kind choices. You find it in people who have lived a long time and learned from their days. A wise person helps others when they are sad or lost. They think before they act. An owl in old stories stands for wisdom because it looks calm and watches carefully.
Wise\n\nWise means you know a lot and make good choices. A wise person thinks before they act. They learn from things they see and hear. A grandma or grandpa is often wise because they have lived a long time. A wise friend can help you when you are sad or stuck.
Wisent\n\nA wisent is a big, strong animal that looks like a cow. It has brown fur, two short horns that curve up, and a big head. It lives in forests and eats leaves, small plants, and tree bark. A long time ago, many wisents walked around Europe, but now they are very hard to find. People can see them in zoos or safe parks where they are kept so they do not go away forever.
Wish\n\nA wish is something you want very much in your heart. It is like a dream you hope will come true. You can make a wish when you blow out candles on a birthday cake. You can also wish on a star in the night sky. Sometimes a wish is for a new toy or a fun trip. Other times it is for someone you love to feel better. A wish is a happy thought that makes you smile.
Witchcraft\n\nWitchcraft is the use of magic powers. It can be used to help people feel better or to hurt them. A person who does witchcraft is called a witch. In stories, a witch may wear a pointy hat and fly on a broom. Some witches use plants and a big pot to make special drinks. Today, some people practice a kind of witchcraft that is peaceful and kind. They like to be close to nature and do good things.
With\n\nWith means being together or using something. It is a small word that joins two things. You can say "I play with my friend" to show you are not alone. You can say "I eat soup with a spoon" to show the tool you use. It helps tell who or what is next to you.
Without\n\nWithout means not having something. It is the opposite of with. You might eat a cookie without milk, or go outside without a coat. When you draw a picture without colors, it stays just lines.
Witness\n\nA witness is a person who sees something happen. He or she tells other people what he or she saw. In a big room called a court, a witness stands up and talks about what happened. A judge and many people listen to him or her. The witness must promise to tell the truth. If he or she tells a lie, that is very bad and can get him or her in trouble. Sometimes a witness is the person who got hurt. Sometimes a witness is just someone who was there. A police officer can also be a witness if he or she saw what happened.
Wolf\n\nA wolf is a wild animal that looks like a big dog. It has a long nose, pointy ears that stand up, long legs, and a big bushy tail. Its fur can be gray, white, brown, or black. It has two layers of fur to keep it warm and dry. Wolves live outside in forests, mountains, and cold, snowy places. They live together in a family group called a pack. The pack works together to find food. It eats meat from animals like deer and rabbits. It makes a loud, long sound called a howl to talk to other wolves far away. A baby wolf is called a pup.
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart\n\nWolfgang Amadeus Mozart was a man who made music a long time ago. He played the piano and wrote many songs. He lived in a country far away and started making music when he was very little. People still play his songs today because they are so pretty. You might hear his music in a movie or on a music box.
Wolverine\n\nA wolverine is a strong, furry animal. It looks a little like a small bear with thick brown fur. It lives in very cold, snowy places far north, like Canada and Alaska. It walks on top of deep snow with its big, wide feet. It eats many things, such as mice, birds, and eggs. In winter, it can hunt animals much bigger than itself. It has a very good nose and can smell food hidden under the snow. People sometimes use its warm fur to make coats.
Woman\n\nA woman is a grown-up girl. She is the mom of a child or the sister of a dad. She has a soft voice and may have long hair. You can find her at home, at a store, or at a school. She can do many things like cook food, drive a car, or read a story. A woman can have a baby in her tummy and feed it milk. Your own mom is a woman you see every day.
Wonder\n\nWonder is a big, happy feeling you get when you see something amazing. It feels like a sparkle inside your chest. You might feel it when you look up at the stars at night or see a rainbow after the rain. It makes you stop and stare with wide eyes and a smile. It can happen when you learn something new and surprising, like how a tiny seed grows into a tall sunflower. Wonder makes the world feel full of magic.
Wonderful\n\nWonderful means something is very, very good. It is a word you say when you feel happy and surprised in a nice way. You might say a rainbow is wonderful because it has many bright colors. A birthday party with cake and friends can be wonderful too. When someone gives you a big hug, that feels wonderful.
Wonders of the World\n\nWonders of the World are very special places or things that people built long ago. They are big, beautiful, and hard to make. You can find them in different parts of the world. People visit them to look and say "wow!" One old wonder is a giant stone triangle called the Great Pyramid. It still stands in a hot, sandy land far away.
Wood\n\nWood is the hard stuff that makes up the inside of a tree. It is brown and has lines called rings that show how old the tree is. You can find it in forests, parks, and your own backyard. People cut wood into boards to build houses, tables, and chairs. It is also used to make paper and pencils. A log is a big round piece of wood. When you color with a pencil, you are holding a little bit of wood in your hand.
Wood carving\n\nWood carving is making shapes out of wood. A person uses a sharp tool like a small knife or a flat chisel to cut away bits of wood. It can be a little figure of an animal, a face on a mask, or a pretty pattern on a chair. You can find wood carvings in old churches, in parks, or in a grandpa's workshop. The wood feels smooth after it is rubbed with sandpaper. Some people paint it with bright colors, and some leave it the color of the tree. A totem pole is a very big wood carving that stands outside.
Wooden\n\nWooden means something is made of wood. Wood comes from the hard part of a tree. A wooden thing can be brown and feel smooth or bumpy. You can find wooden things in many places, like a wooden chair at the table or a wooden block in a toy box. People use wood to build houses, make furniture, and carve toys. A wooden spoon is a tool you might see in the kitchen.
Woodpecker\n\nA woodpecker is a bird that pecks on trees. It has a strong, sharp beak for making holes in wood. It lives in forests and woods all over the world. It uses its long, sticky tongue to pull bugs out of the holes. You might see one on a tree trunk, tapping fast with its beak.
Woodwind instrument\n\nA woodwind instrument is a thing you blow into to make music. It is a long tube with holes along the side. You find it in a big music group called an orchestra. When you blow into it, air moves inside and makes a pretty sound. The flute is one kind. It looks like a shiny stick and you blow across the top, like blowing on a bottle. Another kind is the clarinet. It is usually black and uses a small flat piece of wood to make the sound. Some are made of wood, and some are made of shiny metal.
Woodworking\n\nWoodworking is making things out of wood. It uses tools to cut, shape, and smooth the wood. You can find woodworking in a class at school or in a workshop. People make chairs, tables, toys, and little boxes with it. When you do woodworking, you must wear safety glasses to keep your eyes safe. You also should not wear long sleeves that can get caught. Sandpaper is a rough paper that makes wood feel soft and smooth. A saw is a tool with sharp teeth that cuts wood into smaller pieces.
Woof\n\nWoof is the sound a dog makes. It is a short, loud noise that comes from its mouth. You hear it when a dog is happy, wants to play, or sees someone new. Some dogs woof once, and some woof many times. A big dog has a deep, low woof, and a small dog has a high, quick woof. When you hear a woof, you know a dog is near.
Wool\n\nWool is the soft, warm hair from some animals. It comes mostly from sheep, but also from goats, rabbits, and camels. It looks fluffy and can be white, brown, or gray. People use it to make clothes like sweaters, socks, and scarves. It keeps you warm when it is cold outside. You might have a wool blanket on your bed or a wool hat for winter.
Word\n\nA word is a little piece of talking or writing that has meaning. It is made of one or more letters when you write it down. You use words every day when you speak to your friends and family. When you put words together, they make a sentence. Some words are very short, like "a" or "I". Some words are longer, like "happy" or "butterfly". You can find out what a word means by looking in a big book called a dictionary.
Word processor\n\nA word processor is a program on a computer. It helps you write words and make them look nice. You can change how the words look, like making them big or small or a different color. It can also check if you spelled a word wrong and help you fix it. You can add pictures to your writing and print it out on paper. Many people use it to write letters, stories, or school work.
Work\n\nWork is something you do to get a job done. It can be cleaning your room, helping in the garden, or building with blocks. Grown-ups go to work to earn money so they can buy food and toys. Some work is done at a desk with a computer, and some work is done outside with tools. When you finish your work, you can feel proud and happy.
Work (physics)\n\nWork is when a push or a pull makes something move. It happens only when the thing moves the same way as the push. If you push a toy car and it rolls forward, you do work on it. If you push a wall and it does not move, no work is done. The harder you push and the farther it moves, the more work you do. If you lift a book up, you do work. If you hold it still, you do no work.
Worker\n\nA worker is a person who does a job. He helps make things, fix things, or help other people. You can see a worker at a store, a school, or a hospital. He uses his hands or tools to do his work. A mail carrier is a worker who brings letters to your house.
Working class\n\nWorking class means people who work with their hands or bodies. They do jobs like fixing cars, building houses, or cleaning. They often get paid for each hour they work. You can see them in many places, like the person who drives a bus or the person who cuts hair.
World\n\nThe world is the big round place where we all live. It has land, water, and sky. You can see part of it when you look out the window. It is covered with green trees, blue oceans, and tall mountains. People, animals, and plants all share the world together. It spins around every day, which makes the sun come up and go down.
World economy\n\nThe world economy is all the buying and selling that people do around the world. It is like a big, busy market where countries trade things with each other. One country might send toys to another country, and that country might send fruit back. This trading helps people get things they need but cannot make at home. When the world economy is strong, many people have jobs and can buy food and clothes. When it is weak, some people may not have enough money. Even a small shop in your town is a tiny part of this big world market.
World Heritage Site\n\nA World Heritage Site is a very special place on Earth. It can be a forest, a mountain, a lake, a desert, an old building, or even a whole city. A big group called UNESCO picks these places because they are important for all people. They work to keep each place safe so that children everywhere can see them one day. Some sites are important because of nature, like a beautiful waterfall. Other sites are important because of old stories and buildings, like a big castle. There are many of these places in different countries, and Italy has the most.
World peace\n\nWorld peace is when all people everywhere are kind and safe. It means no fighting, no wars, and no hurting. In a world with peace, everyone shares and helps each other. You can see a little bit of it when friends play together without fighting. Grown-ups work hard to make the whole world peaceful, like when countries talk instead of fighting.
World War\n\nA world war is a very big fight between many countries. It happens in many places all over the world at the same time. Soldiers use big guns, tanks, and planes. Many people get hurt, and cities can break. After a world war, countries try to be friends again and make peace.
World Wide Web\n\nThe World Wide Web is a big, big space inside computers. It is full of pages with words, pictures, and videos. You can see it on a screen using a special tool called a browser. When you click on blue words or pictures, it takes you to a new page. This is how you can jump from one place to another, like a magic door. Many people use it every day to learn, play games, and talk to friends far away.
World's Fair\n\nA World's Fair is a big show where people from many places come together. It has lots of buildings and tents filled with new things to see. You can find it in a big city, and it stays open for many months. People go to learn about faraway lands, new machines, and fun art. A child might see a giant wheel that spins high in the air, or taste a sweet treat from another country.
Worm\n\nA worm is a small, soft animal with no legs. It has a long, thin body that looks like a tiny tube. You can find it in the dirt in your yard or garden. It moves by wiggling and sliding through the ground. It helps plants grow by making the dirt soft and full of air. After rain, you might see it on the sidewalk.
Worry\n\nWorry is a feeling you get when you think something bad might happen. It feels like a little knot in your tummy. You might worry before your first day of school or when you hear a loud noise at night. It can make your heart beat fast and your hands feel sweaty. When you worry, talking to a grown-up like Mom or Dad can help you feel better. A hug or a deep breath can also make the worry go away.
Worship\n\nWorship is a way people show love and thanks to God. It can be a quiet prayer or a happy song. People do it alone at home or together in a big room called a church. They may close their eyes, fold their hands, or sing with others. Sometimes they read from a special book and share a small meal of bread. It helps them feel close to God and to each other.
Worth\n\nWorth is how much something matters or how good it is. It is not the same as how much money it costs. A hug from a friend has worth because it makes you feel happy. A drawing you made has worth because you worked hard on it. Even a small, old toy can have worth if it reminds you of a happy day.
Would\n\nWould is a small word we use to talk about things that are not real yet. It helps us say what might happen if something else happens first. You might say, "I would eat a cookie if I had one." It is also a kind way to ask for something, like "Would you like some milk?" People use it every day when they think about wishes or make polite requests.
Wound\n\nA wound is a hurt on your skin. It can be a cut, a scrape, or a tear. Sometimes it bleeds a little. Your body works hard to fix it all by itself. Over time, new skin grows over the hurt spot. You can help by keeping it clean and putting on a bandage. A bruise is a wound under the skin that looks purple or blue.
Wow\n\nWow is a sound people make when they see something amazing. It is a short, happy word that comes out loud. You might say it when you see a big rainbow or a tall tower. It shows that you feel surprised in a good way. Friends and family say it together when they watch fireworks.
Wrap\n\nA wrap is a kind of food you can hold in your hand. It is made with a soft, flat bread that you fold around yummy things inside. You can find it in lunch boxes or at a store. People put meat, cheese, or crunchy veggies inside it. It is like a sandwich but rolled up tight so nothing falls out.
Wrasse\n\nA wrasse is a small, colorful fish that lives in the ocean. It has bright colors like blue, green, and red. It has thick lips and a long fin on its back. You can find it swimming near coral reefs in warm water. It eats tiny sea animals, like small crabs and worms. Some wrasse help other fish by cleaning them. They nibble away little bugs from the bigger fish's skin. This keeps the big fish healthy and gives the wrasse a meal.
Wren\n\nA wren is a tiny brown bird. It has round wings, a short tail, and a small beak that bends down a little. You can find it in gardens, woods, and parks. It sings a very loud, pretty song for such a small bird. If you see a little brown bird hopping fast in a bush, it might be a wren.
Wrestling\n\nWrestling is a game where two people try to push each other down. They use their arms and legs to grab and hold. They cannot hit or punch. The goal is to make the other person lie on their back on a soft mat. You might see wrestling on TV or at a school gym.
Write\n\nWriting is making marks that stand for words. It uses a pen, pencil, or chalk on paper or a board. You see writing in books, on signs, and on your cereal box. People write to tell stories, share news, or make a list for the store. When you draw letters like A, B, C, that is writing.
Writer\n\nA writer is a person who makes stories or books with words. He sits at a desk and writes letters and words on paper or on a computer. You can find his work in picture books, storybooks, or on signs. He uses words to tell you about a funny cat, a brave hero, or a faraway land. When you read a bedtime story, a writer made those words just for you.
Writing\n\nWriting is a way to put words down so others can read them. It uses marks like letters and shapes that people know. You find it in books, on signs, and on paper at home or school. It helps you tell a story, share a message, or remember things. When you draw letters with a pencil, you are writing. Long ago, people wrote on clay or stone, but today we mostly use paper or a screen.
Writing system\n\nA writing system is a set of marks that people use to share words. It has many little shapes called symbols. You see it in books, on signs, and on your tablet. Each symbol stands for a sound or a whole word. When you put the symbols together, you can read a story. English uses an alphabet with letters like A, B, and C. Some other writing systems use pictures for words, like in Chinese.
Wu Chinese\n\nWu Chinese is a way of talking that people use in one part of China. It is spoken near a big city called Shanghai. People who live in different towns may not always understand each other, even if they both use Wu Chinese. Today, more and more people are using a different way of talking called Mandarin instead.
Wu Zetian\n\nWu Zetian was a very important woman in China a long, long time ago. She was the only woman to ever be the top ruler of all of China. She was very smart and made new rules to help people. She lived in a big, beautiful palace. Many stories are told about her, but she is most famous for being a strong leader.
X-ray\n\nAn X-ray is a special kind of light that we cannot see with our eyes. It can go through soft things like skin and muscles, but not through hard things like bones. Doctors use it to take pictures of the inside of your body. When you break a bone, the doctor can see the break on an X-ray picture. The picture shows the bone as a white shape on a dark background.
Xinjiang\n\nXinjiang is a big piece of land in the country of China. It has tall mountains, hot dry deserts, and some green spots with water called oases. Many people who live there are called Uyghurs. Long ago, traders walked through Xinjiang on a path called the Silk Road. Today, people can visit big cities like rmqi, which is very far from the sea.
Xylophone\n\nA xylophone is a music toy with wooden bars. It has bars of different sizes that sit in a row. You find it in a music room or at school. You hit the bars with a small stick to make a sound. Each bar makes a different note, like a happy little song. The sound is short and bright, like a tap on a table.
Yahweh\n\nYahweh is a very old name for God. Long ago, people in a land called Israel said this name when they prayed. They thought he lived up in the sky and sent rain to help plants grow. He also kept them safe when other people tried to hurt them. Today, many people still use this name to talk about the one big God who made everything.
Yak (disambiguation)\n\nA yak is a big, hairy animal that looks like a cow. It has long, thick hair all over its body. It lives in cold, high places with lots of mountains. People use it to carry heavy bags and to get milk. A yak makes a deep, low sound. You might see one in a picture book about faraway lands.
Yam\n\nA yam is a vegetable that grows under the ground. It looks like a big, bumpy potato. The skin is rough and brown, and the inside can be white, yellow, orange, or even purple. People cook it in many ways—they can boil it, bake it, or fry it. It grows in warm places far away, like Africa and Asia. Some people call a sweet potato a yam, but they are not the same.
Yangtze\n\nThe Yangtze is a very long river. It flows across a big country called China. It is one of the longest rivers in the whole world. Many boats and ships move on it, carrying people and things. Lots of fish live in it, and people catch them for food. The water from it helps farmers grow rice and other plants.
Yangtze River\n\nThe Yangtze River is a very long river in China. It is the longest river in China and the third longest in the world. It starts high in the mountains and goes all the way to the big sea. Many boats and ships use it to carry things from one place to another. A huge wall called a dam was built on it to make power. The river is home to fish and other water animals, but some of them are in danger because the water is not clean. People throw trash and dirty water into it, which hurts the animals.
Yard\n\nA yard is a piece of ground next to a house. It is outside, with no roof over it. You can find it in front of a house or behind it. People use a yard to play, run, or sit in the sun. Some yards have green grass, flowers, or a big tree. A yard is a nice place to be on a warm day.
Yarn\n\nYarn is a long, soft string. It is made by twisting tiny hairs or threads together. You can find it in a craft store or at home in a basket. People use it to make warm things like hats, scarves, and blankets. They loop it with sticks called needles or a hook. It comes in many colors like red, blue, and yellow. A ball of yarn is round and fun to touch.
Yawn\n\nA yawn is when you open your mouth wide and take a big breath in. It happens when you are tired or bored. You cannot stop it once it starts. When one person yawns, other people nearby often yawn too. It is something all people and many animals do.
Yay\n\nYay is a happy sound people make with their mouth. It is short and loud, like a little shout. You say it when something good happens, like getting a new toy or winning a game. Kids often yell it at a birthday party when they see the cake. It is a way to show you are very glad without using words.
Year\n\nA year is a long stretch of time. It has 365 days, but every four years we add one more day. That extra day makes a leap year with 366 days. A year is how long it takes for Earth to go all the way around the sun. We use years to know when we grow older, when seasons change, and when holidays come. A year starts in January and ends in December.
Yeast\n\nYeast is a tiny living thing so small you cannot see it without a special tool. It looks like a little round ball. You can find it in the kitchen when you bake bread or make pizza dough. It eats sugar and makes a gas that puffs up the dough, so the bread gets soft and fluffy. Some people also use it to make drinks like beer. It is a helper in many yummy foods.
Yekaterinburg\n\nYekaterinburg is a big city in Russia. It sits near some tall hills called the Ural mountains. Many people live there. A long time ago, a man started the city and gave it a name after a queen. Today, people work and play in Yekaterinburg, just like in your town.
Yellow\n\nYellow is a bright, happy color. It looks like the sun up in the sky. You can see it in a rainbow, right between green and orange. Many things are yellow, like bananas, lemons, and school buses. Some flowers, like sunflowers, are yellow too. When you mix yellow paint with blue paint, you get green.
Yellow Emperor\n\nThe Yellow Emperor is a very old story hero from China. He is like a great, great, great grandpa to many Chinese people. Long, long ago, he was a wise leader who helped his people. Some old books say he taught them how to make tools and live in houses. Today, people still tell stories about him and think of him as a special person from the past.
Yellow River\n\nThe Yellow River is a very long river in China. It looks yellow because it carries a lot of soft, brown dirt. It flows through the land and ends at the sea. Many people call it the mother river because it helped the first Chinese people grow food and build homes. Long ago, people told stories about a river god who lived in it.
Yellow Sea\n\nThe Yellow Sea is a big body of water. It sits between China and Korea. Its water looks a little yellow because tiny bits of sand and mud flow into it from a big river. Many fish live in it, and people use boats to catch them. On a map, you can see it as a wide blue shape next to the land.
Yellowstone National Park\n\nYellowstone National Park is a big, beautiful park in the United States. It has hot water that shoots up from the ground, called geysers. One famous geyser is Old Faithful. It also has colorful hot pools and bubbling mud. Many big animals live there, like bears, wolves, and bison. People visit it to see the animals and the steaming ground. It was the first national park in the world.
Yemen\n\nYemen is a country far away. It has hot sand, tall mountains, and blue sea around it. Many people live in small villages and big towns. They speak a language called Arabic. In Yemen, people love to play soccer. They kick the ball on dusty fields and cheer for their team. Some people also climb rocks or swim in the sea. The capital city is Sana'a. It has old buildings made of mud and stone.
Yen\n\nYen is the money people use in Japan. It has round coins and paper notes. The coins are light and come in sizes from 1 to 500. The paper notes go up to a big number called 10000. When you go to a store in Japan, you pay with yen. It is one of the most used kinds of money in the world.
Yes\n\nYes is a word we say when we agree. It means we want to do something or we like an idea. When someone asks, "Do you want a cookie?" and you say yes, you get the cookie. It is the opposite of no. We use it every day with friends and family.
Yesterday\n\nYesterday is the day that came before today. It is the day you already lived through. When you wake up in the morning, the day that just ended is yesterday. You might remember what you did yesterday, like playing with a toy or eating a snack. It is gone now, but you can think about it. Tomorrow is the day that comes next.
Yet\n\nYet is a small word we use when something has not happened, but we think it will. It often comes at the end of a sentence. For example, you might say, "I did not eat my snack yet." That means you still plan to eat it later. It helps us talk about things that are not finished.
Yin and yang\n\nYin and yang is a special picture from China. It looks like a circle with two teardrop shapes, one black and one white. The black part has a small white dot inside, and the white part has a small black dot. It shows how things that are different can fit together. For example, day and night are different, but both are part of a full day. People use it to remember that too much of one thing is not good. You might see it on a poster or in a movie.
Yoga\n\nYoga is a way to move your body and breathe slowly. It comes from a very old idea about feeling calm and strong. A person doing yoga moves into different shapes with their body. Each shape is called a pose. It helps the body feel loose and happy. You can do it on a soft mat at home or in a big room with other people. Some poses look like a dog stretching or a tree standing tall. Breathing in and out is a big part of it. It makes the mind quiet and peaceful.
Yogurt\n\nYogurt is a thick, creamy food made from milk. It is white and smooth, and it tastes a little sour. You can find it in small cups at the store, often with fruit on the bottom. People eat it for breakfast or as a snack. It is good for your body because it has things that help your bones grow strong. Some kids like to eat it with a spoon right from the cup.
Yokohama\n\nYokohama is a big city in Japan. It is next to the water and has a very large port where big boats come and go. Many cars and machines leave from this port to go to other places. In the city, there is a fun area with rides and shops called Minato Mirai. It also has the biggest Chinatown in Japan, where you can see red gates and eat yummy food. Yokohama is very close to Tokyo, another big city.
Yoruba language\n\nYoruba language is a way people talk to each other. It is spoken in a warm part of the world called West Africa. Many people in places like Nigeria, Benin, and Togo use it every day. It sounds like music, with words that go up and down in tone. Some people who moved far away still speak it at home. It has its own letters and stories that parents teach their children.
Yoruba people\n\nYoruba people are a big group of people who live in Africa. They live on the west side of Africa, mostly in a country called Nigeria. They have their own way of talking, their own songs, and their own stories. Many of them wear bright, colorful clothes with pretty patterns. They cook tasty food like pounded yam and spicy soup. Some Yoruba people live in big cities, and some live in small villages.
Yoruba religion\n\nYoruba religion is a way of believing that comes from Africa. It started with the Yoruba people in a country called Nigeria. In this belief, things like trees, rivers, and big stones have a special spirit inside them. People who follow it may pray to these spirits. Some people in Cuba and other warm islands also follow it. They mix it with other beliefs and give it a new name there.
Yosemite National Park\n\nYosemite National Park is a big, beautiful place in California. It has tall, gray rock walls and many waterfalls that fall from high up. The most famous waterfall is called Yosemite Falls. Many people visit it each year to walk, look at the trees, and see animals like deer and bears. Most of the park is wild land with no houses or roads.
You\n\nYou is a word we use when we talk to one person. It can be a boy, a girl, a grown-up, or even a pet. When you say "you," you point to the person you are talking to. You can use it to ask a question, like "Do you want a cookie?" or to say something nice, like "You are my friend." It is a small word, but it helps us talk to each other every day.
Young\n\nYoung means not old. A baby is very young. A puppy or a kitten is young too. When you are young, you are small and still growing. You learn new things every day, like how to tie your shoes or count to ten. Young leaves on a tree are tiny and light green. They get bigger and darker as they grow. Being young is a happy time full of play and fun.
Your\n\nYour is a word we use when something belongs to you. It shows that a thing is yours. For example, if you have a toy, you can say, "This is your toy." We use it when we talk to one person. It is a small word, but it helps people know who owns what.
Yours\n\nYours means something belongs to you. When you have a toy and it is yours, nobody else can take it without asking. You might see the word on a birthday card that says "This gift is yours." It is a way to show that a thing is for you and only you.
Yourself\n\nYourself means you. It is the one person you see when you look in a mirror. You know what you like, what you feel, and what you think. You can do things all by yourself, like putting on your shoes or drawing a picture. When you say "I did it myself," that means you did it with no help.
Yucca\n\nYucca is a plant with long, pointy leaves. It has a thick stem and white flowers that look like bells. It grows in hot, dry places with lots of sun. People plant it in gardens because it looks pretty. A small moth helps it make seeds by carrying yellow dust from flower to flower.
Yucky\n\nYucky is a word for something that feels or tastes bad. It can be a food that makes your face scrunch up, like a sour lemon or a mushy vegetable. You might say a sticky, gooey mud puddle is yucky when you step in it. It is a feeling you get when something is not nice to touch, smell, or eat. Sometimes a smell from the trash can is yucky too.
Yugoslavia\n\nYugoslavia was a big country in Europe. It was made of many smaller lands with different people who spoke different words and had different ways. It does not live on the map anymore because it broke into smaller places. Some of those places are Serbia, Croatia, and Bosnia. People there used to share one country, but now they have their own.
Yukon River\n\nThe Yukon River is a long, moving path of water. It starts in a place called British Columbia and goes through the Yukon and Alaska. It ends when it flows into the big, cold Bering Sea. Long ago, people used it like a road to travel and look for gold. It is the longest river in those cold, northern lands.
Yummy\n\nYummy is a word we say when food tastes very good. It is a happy feeling on your tongue. You might say it when you eat a sweet cookie, a juicy apple, or a warm piece of bread. When something is yummy, you want to eat more of it. It makes you smile and feel full and happy inside.
Zagros Mountains\n\nThe Zagros Mountains are a long line of tall hills and rocks. They stretch across parts of Iran and Iraq. Some of the peaks are very high, with snow on top. People find oil deep under the ground there. Many animals and plants live on these slopes.
Zambezi River\n\nThe Zambezi River is a very long river in Africa. It starts in a country called Zambia and moves through many other countries. At the end, it flows into the big Indian Ocean. It has a huge waterfall named Victoria Falls, where water drops down with a loud roar. People built a big wall called a dam on the river to make power for lights and machines. During the rainy time, the river gets much bigger and faster.
Zambia\n\nZambia is a country in Africa. It is a big piece of land with many people. It has green trees, wide rivers, and a huge waterfall called Victoria Falls. People in Zambia speak many different languages, but English is used in schools. The biggest city is Lusaka. Long ago, people dug up a shiny orange metal called copper from the ground. Today, many people grow food like corn to sell. Zambia has a flag with green, red, black, and orange stripes, and an eagle on top.
Zebra\n\nA zebra is an animal that looks like a horse with black and white stripes. It has short fur and a dark line down its back. The stripes go up and down on its body and side to side on its legs. Every zebra has its own special stripe pattern, just like a fingerprint. Zebras live in hot places in Africa. They stay together in big groups and eat grass. They like to be near water. A baby zebra is called a foal.
Zen\n\nZen is a way of thinking and sitting still. It comes from a very old teaching that started in China and later went to Japan. People who do Zen sit quietly and close their eyes. They try to let their thoughts float away like clouds. Sometimes they think about a funny puzzle that has no easy answer. A Zen garden has sand and rocks, and people rake the sand into wavy lines. It helps the mind feel calm and quiet.
Zero\n\nZero is a number that means none. It looks like a round circle, like the letter O. You see it on clocks, in books, and on signs. It tells you there is nothing of something. For example, if you have zero cookies, your plate is empty.
Zeus\n\nZeus is a pretend king from very old stories. He lives high up on a big mountain in the sky. He holds a bright, loud bolt of light that he can throw down. People long ago told tales about him to explain thunder and rain. They also had big races and games to make him happy.
Zimbabwe\n\nZimbabwe is a country in the south part of Africa. It has no sea next to it, so it is called a landlocked country. It is home to a big, beautiful waterfall named Victoria Falls. Many animals live there, like lions, elephants, and lots of birds. People in Zimbabwe speak many languages, and they love to play soccer.
Zinc\n\nZinc is a kind of metal. It is shiny and has a bluish-gray color. You can find it inside some batteries that make toys work. People also use it to cover other metals so they do not rust. A penny has a thin copper outside, but the inside is made of zinc.
Zip\n\nA zip is a fast way to close a jacket or a bag. It has two rows of tiny teeth that lock together when you pull a little slider up. You find it on coats, pants, backpacks, and pencil cases. It keeps things inside safe and warm. When you get dressed in the morning, you might zip up your jacket all by yourself.
Zipper\n\nA zipper is a tool that holds two sides of cloth together. It has two long strips with small metal or plastic teeth. A little piece called a slider moves up and down to lock the teeth or pull them apart. You find it on pants, jackets, bags, and shoes. When you pull the slider up, it closes the opening. When you pull it down, it opens. It makes a soft buzzing sound when you move it.
Zodiac\n\nZodiac is a set of twelve signs in the sky. It looks like a circle of stars shaped like animals or people. You can find it in the night sky, but you need a map to see the shapes. People use it to guess what a person is like based on when they were born. For example, if you are born in a certain month, your sign might be a lion or a fish. In another part of the world, the signs are animals like a dragon or a rabbit, and each year gets a new animal.
Zombie\n\nA zombie is a made-up creature that looks like a dead person but walks around. It moves slowly and has gray or green skin. Its clothes are torn and dirty. You see zombies in scary movies and TV shows. In stories, a zombie tries to catch people and bite them. It does not think or talk. Many people dress up as zombies for Halloween.
Zoo\n\nA zoo is a big park where many animals live. It has tall fences and safe houses for the animals. You can walk around and see lions, monkeys, elephants, and birds. People who work there feed the animals and keep them healthy. Some zoos help baby animals when there are very few left in the wild. A zoo is a fun place to visit with your family.
Zoology\n\nZoology is the science of learning about animals. It is a part of biology, the study of all living things. A person who studies animals is called a zoologist. They watch animals to see how they live, grow, and move. They also look at animal bodies to learn what is inside. Some zoologists work at a zoo, where they take care of the animals there. Others work in a museum or a school. They help us understand animals that are alive today and animals that lived long, long ago.
Zoroaster\n\nZoroaster was a wise teacher who lived a very long time ago. He lived in a land called Persia, which is far away. He started a way of thinking about good and bad, and many people followed his ideas. Today, some people still remember his words and try to be good like he said.
Zucchini\n\nZucchini is a long green vegetable. It looks like a cucumber but is a little thicker. People cook it in a pan or bake it in bread. Some people cut it into long thin strips and call them zoodles. You can find it in a garden or at the grocery store.
Zulu people\n\nThe Zulu people are a big group of people who live in South Africa. They have dark skin and dark hair. Many of them live in a place called KwaZulu-Natal. They speak a language with clicks in it. Long ago, they had a strong king who led them. Today, they are the biggest group in their country and have the same rights as everyone else.
